docs/content/_apidocs.mdx, before:

---
title: API Docs | Dagster
---

# API Docs

These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core `dagster` APIs, as well as public APIs from all provided libraries.

Dagster follows [SemVer](https://semver.org/). We attempt to isolate breaking changes to the public APIs to minor versions (on a roughly 12-week cadence) and will announce deprecations in Slack and in the release notes to patch versions (on a roughly weekly cadence).

## Core

APIs from the core `dagster` package, divided roughly by topic:

- [Software-Defined Assets](/\_apidocs/assets). An asset is an object in persistent storage, such as a table, file, or persisted machine learning model. A software-defined asset is a Dagster object that couples an asset to the function and upstream assets that are used to produce its contents.

- [Jobs](/\_apidocs/jobs) APIs to define jobs that execute a set of ops with specific parameters.

- [Ops](/\_apidocs/ops) APIs to define or decorate functions as ops, declare their inputs and outputs, compose ops with each other, as well as the datatypes that op execution can return or yield.

- [Graphs](/\_apidocs/ops) APIs to define a logical structure of ops.

- [Resources](/\_apidocs/resources) APIs to define resources which can provide specific implementations of certain functionality within a job.

- [Loggers](/\_apidocs/loggers) APIs to define where logs go.

- [Repositories](/\_apidocs/repositories) APIs to define collections of jobs and other definitions that tools such as the Dagster CLI or Dagit can load from.

- [Config](/\_apidocs/config) The types available to describe config schemas.

- [Types](/\_apidocs/types) The Dagster type system helps describe and verify at runtime the values that ops accept and produce.

- [Dagster CLI](/\_apidocs/cli) Browse repositories and execute jobs from the command line

- [Schedules & Sensors](/\_apidocs/schedules-sensors) APIs to define schedules and sensors that initiate job execution, as well as some built-in helpers for common cases.

- [Partitions](/\_apidocs/partitions) APIs to define partitions of the config space over which job runs can be backfilled.

- [Errors](/\_apidocs/errors) Errors thrown by the Dagster framework.

- [Execution](/\_apidocs/execution) APIs to execute and test jobs and individual ops, the execution context available to ops, job configuration, and the default executors available for executing jobs.

- [Hooks](/\_apidocs/hooks) APIs to define Dagster hooks, which can be triggered on specific Dagster events.

- [IO Managers](/\_apidocs/io-managers) APIs to define how inputs and outputs are handled and loaded.

- [Dynamic Mapping & Collect](/\_apidocs/dynamic) APIs that allow graph structures to be determined at run time.

- [Versioning & Memoization](/\_apidocs/memoization) (Experimental) Code versioning and memoization of previous outputs based upon that versioning.

- [Utilities](/\_apidocs/utilities) Miscellaneous helpers used by Dagster that may be useful to users.

- [Internals](/\_apidocs/internals) Core internal APIs that are important if you are interested in understanding how Dagster works with an eye towards extending it: logging, executors, system storage, the Dagster instance & plugin machinery, storage, schedulers.

## Legacy

APIs from the core `dagster`package that are still supported, but no longer recommended.

- [Solids](/\_apidocs/solids) APIs to define or decorate functions as solids, declare their inputs and outputs, compose solids with each other, as well as the datatypes that solid execution can return or yield.

- [Pipelines](/\_apidocs/pipeline) APIs to define pipelines, dependencies and fan-in dependencies between solids, and aliased instances of solids.

- [Modes](/\_apidocs/modes) APIs to define pipeline modes.

- [Presets](/\_apidocs/presets) APIs to define configuration presets.

## Libraries

Dagster also provides a growing set of optional add-on libraries to integrate with infrastructure and other components of the data ecosystem:

- [Airbyte](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airbyte) (`dagster-airbyte`) Dagster integrations to run Airbyte jobs.

- [Airflow](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airflow) (`dagster-airflow`) Tools for compiling Dagster jobs to Airflow DAGs, and for ingesting Airflow DAGs to represent them in Dagster.

- [AWS](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-aws) (`dagster-aws`) Dagster integrations for working with AWS resources.

- [Azure](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-azure) (`dagster-azure`) Dagster integrations for working with Microsoft Azure resources.

- [Celery](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery) (`dagster-celery`) Provides an executor built on top of the popular [Celery task queue](http://www.celeryproject.org/), and an executor with support for using Celery on Kubernetes.

- [Celery+Docker](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery-docker) (`dagster-celery-docker`) Provides an executor that lets Celery workers execute in Docker containers.

- [Celery+Kubernetes](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery-k8s) (`dagster-celery-k8s`) Provides an executor that lets Celery workers execute on Kubernetes.

- [Dask](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dask) (`dagster-dask`) Provides an executor built on top of [dask.distributed](https://distributed.dask.org/en/latest/).

- [dbt](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt) (`dagster-dbt`) Provides ops and resources to run [dbt](https://getdbt.com/) projects.

- [Fivetran](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-fivetran) (`dagster-fivetran`) Provides ops and resources to run [Fivetran](https://fivetran.com/) syncs.

- [Databricks](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-databricks) (`dagster-databricks`) Provides ops and resources for integrating with Databricks.

- [Datadog](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-datadog) (`dagster-datadog`) Provides an integration with Datadog, to support publishing metrics to Datadog from within Dagster ops.

- [Docker](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-docker) (`dagster-docker`) Provides components for deploying Dagster to Docker.

- [GCP](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-gcp) (`dagster-gcp`) Dagster integrations for working with Google Cloud Platform resources.

- [GE](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-ge) (`dagster-ge`) Dagster integrations for working with [Great Expectations](https://greatexpectations.io/) data quality tests.

- [GitHub](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-github) (`dagster-github`) Provides a resource for issuing GitHub GraphQL queries and filing GitHub issues from Dagster jobs.

- [Kubernetes](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-k8s) (`dagster-k8s`) Provides components for deploying Dagster to Kubernetes.

- [Microsoft Teams](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-msteams) (`dagster-msteams`) Includes a simple integration with Microsoft Teams.

- [MLflow](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-mlflow) (`dagster-mlflow`) Provides resources and hooks for using MLflow functionalities with Dagster runs.

- [MySQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-mysql) (`dagster-mysql`) Includes implementations of run and event log storage built on MySQL.

- [PagerDuty](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pagerduty) (`dagster-pagerduty`) Provides an integration for generating PagerDuty events from Dagster ops.

- [Pandas](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pandas) (`dagster-pandas`) Provides support for using pandas DataFrames in Dagster and utilities for performing data validation.

- [Papertrail](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-papertrail) (`dagster-papertrail`) Provides support for sending Dagster logs to Papertrail.

- [PostgreSQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-postgres) (`dagster-postgres`) Includes implementations of run and event log storage built on Postgres.

- [Prometheus](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-prometheus) (`dagster-prometheus`) Provides support for sending metrics to Prometheus.

- [Pyspark](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pyspark) (`dagster-pyspark`) Provides an integration with pyspark.

- [Shell](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-shell) (`dagster-shell`) Provides utilities for issuing shell commands from Dagster jobs.

- [Slack](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-slack) (`dagster-slack`) Provides a simple integration with Slack.

- [Snowflake](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-snowflake) (`dagster-snowflake`) Provides resources for querying Snowflake from Dagster.

- [Snowflake+Pandas](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-snowflake-pandas) (`dagster-snowflake-pandas`) Provides support for storing Pandas DataFrames in Snowflake.

- [Spark](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-spark) (`dagster-spark`) Provides an integration for working with Spark in Dagster.

- [SSH / SFTP](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-ssh) (`dagster-ssh`) Provides an integration for running commands over SSH and retrieving / posting files via SFTP.

- [Twilio](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-twilio) (`dagster-twilio`) Provides a resource for posting SMS messages from ops via Twilio.

- [GraphQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-graphql) (`dagster-graphql`) Provides resources for interfacing with a Dagster deployment over GraphQL.

Commit message:

add datahub to navigation, remove test code

docs/content/_apidocs.mdx, after:

---
title: API Docs | Dagster
---

# API Docs

These docs aim to cover the entire public surface of the core `dagster` APIs, as well as public APIs from all provided libraries.

Dagster follows [SemVer](https://semver.org/). We attempt to isolate breaking changes to the public APIs to minor versions (on a roughly 12-week cadence) and will announce deprecations in Slack and in the release notes to patch versions (on a roughly weekly cadence).

## Core

APIs from the core `dagster` package, divided roughly by topic:

- [Software-Defined Assets](/\_apidocs/assets). An asset is an object in persistent storage, such as a table, file, or persisted machine learning model. A software-defined asset is a Dagster object that couples an asset to the function and upstream assets that are used to produce its contents.

- [Jobs](/\_apidocs/jobs) APIs to define jobs that execute a set of ops with specific parameters.

- [Ops](/\_apidocs/ops) APIs to define or decorate functions as ops, declare their inputs and outputs, compose ops with each other, as well as the datatypes that op execution can return or yield.

- [Graphs](/\_apidocs/ops) APIs to define a logical structure of ops.

- [Resources](/\_apidocs/resources) APIs to define resources which can provide specific implementations of certain functionality within a job.

- [Loggers](/\_apidocs/loggers) APIs to define where logs go.

- [Repositories](/\_apidocs/repositories) APIs to define collections of jobs and other definitions that tools such as the Dagster CLI or Dagit can load from.

- [Config](/\_apidocs/config) The types available to describe config schemas.

- [Types](/\_apidocs/types) The Dagster type system helps describe and verify at runtime the values that ops accept and produce.

- [Dagster CLI](/\_apidocs/cli) Browse repositories and execute jobs from the command line

- [Schedules & Sensors](/\_apidocs/schedules-sensors) APIs to define schedules and sensors that initiate job execution, as well as some built-in helpers for common cases.

- [Partitions](/\_apidocs/partitions) APIs to define partitions of the config space over which job runs can be backfilled.

- [Errors](/\_apidocs/errors) Errors thrown by the Dagster framework.

- [Execution](/\_apidocs/execution) APIs to execute and test jobs and individual ops, the execution context available to ops, job configuration, and the default executors available for executing jobs.

- [Hooks](/\_apidocs/hooks) APIs to define Dagster hooks, which can be triggered on specific Dagster events.

- [IO Managers](/\_apidocs/io-managers) APIs to define how inputs and outputs are handled and loaded.

- [Dynamic Mapping & Collect](/\_apidocs/dynamic) APIs that allow graph structures to be determined at run time.

- [Versioning & Memoization](/\_apidocs/memoization) (Experimental) Code versioning and memoization of previous outputs based upon that versioning.

- [Utilities](/\_apidocs/utilities) Miscellaneous helpers used by Dagster that may be useful to users.

- [Internals](/\_apidocs/internals) Core internal APIs that are important if you are interested in understanding how Dagster works with an eye towards extending it: logging, executors, system storage, the Dagster instance & plugin machinery, storage, schedulers.

## Legacy

APIs from the core `dagster`package that are still supported, but no longer recommended.

- [Solids](/\_apidocs/solids) APIs to define or decorate functions as solids, declare their inputs and outputs, compose solids with each other, as well as the datatypes that solid execution can return or yield.

- [Pipelines](/\_apidocs/pipeline) APIs to define pipelines, dependencies and fan-in dependencies between solids, and aliased instances of solids.

- [Modes](/\_apidocs/modes) APIs to define pipeline modes.

- [Presets](/\_apidocs/presets) APIs to define configuration presets.

## Libraries

Dagster also provides a growing set of optional add-on libraries to integrate with infrastructure and other components of the data ecosystem:

- [Airbyte](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airbyte) (`dagster-airbyte`) Dagster integrations to run Airbyte jobs.

- [Airflow](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airflow) (`dagster-airflow`) Tools for compiling Dagster jobs to Airflow DAGs, and for ingesting Airflow DAGs to represent them in Dagster.

- [AWS](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-aws) (`dagster-aws`) Dagster integrations for working with AWS resources.

- [Azure](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-azure) (`dagster-azure`) Dagster integrations for working with Microsoft Azure resources.

- [Celery](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery) (`dagster-celery`) Provides an executor built on top of the popular [Celery task queue](http://www.celeryproject.org/), and an executor with support for using Celery on Kubernetes.

- [Celery+Docker](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery-docker) (`dagster-celery-docker`) Provides an executor that lets Celery workers execute in Docker containers.

- [Celery+Kubernetes](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-celery-k8s) (`dagster-celery-k8s`) Provides an executor that lets Celery workers execute on Kubernetes.

- [Dask](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dask) (`dagster-dask`) Provides an executor built on top of [dask.distributed](https://distributed.dask.org/en/latest/).

- [dbt](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt) (`dagster-dbt`) Provides ops and resources to run [dbt](https://getdbt.com/) projects.

- [Fivetran](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-fivetran) (`dagster-fivetran`) Provides ops and resources to run [Fivetran](https://fivetran.com/) syncs.

- [Databricks](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-databricks) (`dagster-databricks`) Provides ops and resources for integrating with Databricks.

- [Datadog](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-datadog) (`dagster-datadog`) Provides an integration with Datadog, to support publishing metrics to Datadog from within Dagster ops.

- [Datahub](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-datahub) (`dagster-datahub`) Provides an integration with Datahub, to support pushing metadata to Datahub from within Dagster ops.

- [Docker](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-docker) (`dagster-docker`) Provides components for deploying Dagster to Docker.

- [GCP](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-gcp) (`dagster-gcp`) Dagster integrations for working with Google Cloud Platform resources.

- [GE](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-ge) (`dagster-ge`) Dagster integrations for working with [Great Expectations](https://greatexpectations.io/) data quality tests.

- [GitHub](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-github) (`dagster-github`) Provides a resource for issuing GitHub GraphQL queries and filing GitHub issues from Dagster jobs.

- [Kubernetes](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-k8s) (`dagster-k8s`) Provides components for deploying Dagster to Kubernetes.

- [Microsoft Teams](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-msteams) (`dagster-msteams`) Includes a simple integration with Microsoft Teams.

- [MLflow](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-mlflow) (`dagster-mlflow`) Provides resources and hooks for using MLflow functionalities with Dagster runs.

- [MySQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-mysql) (`dagster-mysql`) Includes implementations of run and event log storage built on MySQL.

- [PagerDuty](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pagerduty) (`dagster-pagerduty`) Provides an integration for generating PagerDuty events from Dagster ops.

- [Pandas](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pandas) (`dagster-pandas`) Provides support for using pandas DataFrames in Dagster and utilities for performing data validation.

- [Papertrail](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-papertrail) (`dagster-papertrail`) Provides support for sending Dagster logs to Papertrail.

- [PostgreSQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-postgres) (`dagster-postgres`) Includes implementations of run and event log storage built on Postgres.

- [Prometheus](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-prometheus) (`dagster-prometheus`) Provides support for sending metrics to Prometheus.

- [Pyspark](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-pyspark) (`dagster-pyspark`) Provides an integration with pyspark.

- [Shell](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-shell) (`dagster-shell`) Provides utilities for issuing shell commands from Dagster jobs.

- [Slack](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-slack) (`dagster-slack`) Provides a simple integration with Slack.

- [Snowflake](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-snowflake) (`dagster-snowflake`) Provides resources for querying Snowflake from Dagster.

- [Snowflake+Pandas](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-snowflake-pandas) (`dagster-snowflake-pandas`) Provides support for storing Pandas DataFrames in Snowflake.

- [Spark](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-spark) (`dagster-spark`) Provides an integration for working with Spark in Dagster.

- [SSH / SFTP](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-ssh) (`dagster-ssh`) Provides an integration for running commands over SSH and retrieving / posting files via SFTP.

- [Twilio](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-twilio) (`dagster-twilio`) Provides a resource for posting SMS messages from ops via Twilio.

- [GraphQL](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-graphql) (`dagster-graphql`) Provides resources for interfacing with a Dagster deployment over GraphQL.
