docs/content/concepts.mdx, before:

# Concepts

Dagster is a data orchestrator. It lets you define jobs in terms of the data flow between logical components called ops. These jobs can be developed locally and run anywhere.

## How to use the Concepts section

Each page in this section contains:

- **Overview**: Description of the concept.
- **Relevant APIs**: Index of top-level Dagster APIs that are relevant to the concept.
- **Examples**: Easy-to-copy code snippets for the concept.
- **Patterns**: A list of advanced patterns to use and anti-patterns to avoid with the concept.

## Sections

<LinkGrid>
  <LinkGridItem title="Assets" href="/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets">
    Assets are data objects that you produce during a run. This section walks
    you through how to inform Dagster about these assets so that they can be
    tracked over time.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Ops, Jobs, and Graphs"
    href="/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops"
  >
    Ops, Jobs, and Graphs are the building blocks of Dagster code. This section
    covers how to define and use both ops and jobs.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Schedules, Sensors, and Partitions"
    href="/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules"
  >
    Schedulers can launch runs on a fixed interval, while sensors allow you to
    run based on any external state change. This section demonstrates how to
    define them and their convenient capabilities like partitioning and
    backfilling.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="IO Management"
    href="/concepts/io-management/io-managers"
  >
    IO Managers are user-provided objects that store op outputs and load them as
    inputs to downstream ops. This section explains how Dagster thinks about IO
    management and shows how to define and use IO managers and other IO-related
    features.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Configuration"
    href="/concepts/configuration/config-schema"
  >
    Dagster provides a configuration system that allows you to document,
    schematize, and error-check your configuration. This section demonstrates
    how configurations work with different Dagster entities.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Repositories and Workspaces"
    href="/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories"
  >
    A workspace is a collection of user-defined repositories and information
    about where to find them. Dagster tools, like Dagit and the Dagster CLI, use
    workspaces to load user code. This section shows how to define and when to
    use repositories and workspaces.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Resources" href="/concepts/resources">
    Resources enable you to separate logic from its heavyweight external
    dependencies. This makes testing and developing data jobs possible in
    various environments.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Dagit & GraphQL API" href="/concepts/dagit/dagit">
    Dagit is a web-based interface for viewing and interacting with Dagster
    objects. This section walks you through Dagit's functionalities and the
    GraphQL API used to interact with Dagster programatically.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Dagster Types" href="/concepts/types">
    Dagster includes gradual, opt-in typing for the inputs and outputs of ops.
    This section explains how to define, use, and test types in Dagster.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Logging" href="/concepts/logging/loggers">
    Dagster includes a rich and extensible logging system. This section
    showcases Dagster's built-in logger and shows how you can customize loggers
    to fit your logging and monitoring infrastructure.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Testing" href="/concepts/testing">
    Dagster enables you to build testable and maintainable data applications.
    This section shows that Dagster enables you to unit-test your data jobs,
    separate business logic from external dependencies, and run data quality
    tests.
  </LinkGridItem>
</LinkGrid>

Commit message:

Update Concepts page
- Remove first paragraph - this is repeated in a lot of other places and isn't necessary here
- Remove section titles from page overview, as this has recently changed

docs/content/concepts.mdx, after:

# Concepts

Use this section to become familiar with Dagster's core concepts. On each page, you'll find:

- Detailed info about the concept
- An index of the top-level Dagster APIs related to the concept
- Code examples
- Advanced usage patterns and anti-patterns to avoid

<LinkGrid>
  <LinkGridItem title="Assets" href="/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets">
    Assets are data objects that you produce during a run. This section walks
    you through how to inform Dagster about these assets so that they can be
    tracked over time.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Ops, Jobs, and Graphs"
    href="/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops"
  >
    Ops, Jobs, and Graphs are the building blocks of Dagster code. This section
    covers how to define and use both ops and jobs.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Schedules, Sensors, and Partitions"
    href="/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules"
  >
    Schedulers can launch runs on a fixed interval, while sensors allow you to
    run based on any external state change. This section demonstrates how to
    define them and their convenient capabilities like partitioning and
    backfilling.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="IO Management"
    href="/concepts/io-management/io-managers"
  >
    IO Managers are user-provided objects that store op outputs and load them as
    inputs to downstream ops. This section explains how Dagster thinks about IO
    management and shows how to define and use IO managers and other IO-related
    features.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Configuration"
    href="/concepts/configuration/config-schema"
  >
    Dagster provides a configuration system that allows you to document,
    schematize, and error-check your configuration. This section demonstrates
    how configurations work with different Dagster entities.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem
    title="Repositories and Workspaces"
    href="/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories"
  >
    A workspace is a collection of user-defined repositories and information
    about where to find them. Dagster tools, like Dagit and the Dagster CLI, use
    workspaces to load user code. This section shows how to define and when to
    use repositories and workspaces.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Resources" href="/concepts/resources">
    Resources enable you to separate logic from its heavyweight external
    dependencies. This makes testing and developing data jobs possible in
    various environments.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Dagit & GraphQL API" href="/concepts/dagit/dagit">
    Dagit is a web-based interface for viewing and interacting with Dagster
    objects. This section walks you through Dagit's functionalities and the
    GraphQL API used to interact with Dagster programatically.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Dagster Types" href="/concepts/types">
    Dagster includes gradual, opt-in typing for the inputs and outputs of ops.
    This section explains how to define, use, and test types in Dagster.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Logging" href="/concepts/logging/loggers">
    Dagster includes a rich and extensible logging system. This section
    showcases Dagster's built-in logger and shows how you can customize loggers
    to fit your logging and monitoring infrastructure.
  </LinkGridItem>
  <LinkGridItem title="Testing" href="/concepts/testing">
    Dagster enables you to build testable and maintainable data applications.
    This section shows that Dagster enables you to unit-test your data jobs,
    separate business logic from external dependencies, and run data quality
    tests.
  </LinkGridItem>
</LinkGrid>
