docs/content/dagster-cloud.mdx, before:

---
title: "Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Dagster Cloud

Dagster Cloud provides robust, managed infrastructure, elegant CI/CD capability, and multiple deployment options to suit your needs.

---

## Getting started

Learn how to set up your Dagster Cloud account and select a deployment type.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Getting started with Dagster Cloud"
    href="/dagster-cloud/getting-started"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Serverless deployments in Dagster Cloud"
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Hybrid deployments in Dagster Cloud"
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Managing your account

Learn to manage your Dagster Cloud account, including user authentication, monitoring, and alerting.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Managing users"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/managing-users"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Managing user and agent tokens"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/managing-user-agent-tokens"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Setting up alerts"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/setting-up-alerts"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Configuring authentication

Secure your account using our out-of-the-box support for Google and GitHub SSO, or take full control with SAML SSO:

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-azure-ad-saml-sso"
    title="Azure Active Directory"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-google-workspace-saml-sso"
    title="Google Workspace"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-okta-saml-sso"
    title="Okta"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-onelogin-saml-sso"
    title="OneLogin"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-pingone-saml-sso"
    title="PingOne"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Managing a hybrid deployment agent

Dagster Cloud uses an agent that is responsible for executing your code. If you're using a [hybrid deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid), you'll need to spin up and maintain an agent in your infrastructure.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/amazon-ecs"
    title="Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud//deployment/agents/docker"
    title="Docker agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/kubernetes"
    title="Kubernetes agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/local"
    title="Local agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/customizing-configuration"
    title="Customizing agent configuration"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/running-multiple-agents"
    title="Running multiple agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Developing and testing

Learn how to deploy your code to Dagster Cloud, use command line tools, and set up CI/CD.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using the dagster-cloud CLI"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Adding and managing Dagster Code"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/code-locations"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using Branch Deployments for Continous Integration (CI)"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using Dagster Cloud environment variables"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

Commit message:

[docs] - Cloud QA (#9297)
* Fix links in Cloud user guide

* Formatting in SSO guides

* Grammar and formatting in agent guides

* Add env var guide link in Branch Deployments

* Capitalizing Branch Deployments

* Add BD setup guides to category page

* Update /dagster-cloud page

- Formatting
- Fixes a broken link
- Adds BD setup guides

* Fix formatting and some grammar

* Correct capitalization in category pages

* Snapshot

* Correct capitalization

* Correcting capitalization

* Add new GS guides to Cloud category page

* Formatting and grammar in GS guide

* Correcting capitalization

docs/content/dagster-cloud.mdx, after:

---
title: "Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Dagster Cloud

Dagster Cloud provides robust, managed infrastructure, elegant CI/CD capability, and multiple deployment options to suit your needs.

---

## Getting started

Learn how to set up your Dagster Cloud account and select a deployment type.

### Serverless Deployment

**Serverless Deployment** is a fully-managed version of Dagster Cloud that allows you to run your Dagster jobs without spinning up any infrastructure. While Serverless is the easiest way to get started with Dagster, this deployment type works best with jobs that aren't computationally expensive.

- Learn more about [Serverless Deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless)
- [Get started with Serverless Deployment](/dagster-cloud/getting-started/getting-started-with-serverless-deployment)

### Hybrid Deployment

With **Hybrid Deployment**, your Dagster code is executed in your infrastructure and requires setting up an agent for use with Dagster Cloud. The agent runs in your infrastructure, executes your code, and streams metadata about code execution over HTTPS back to Dagster Cloud.

- Learn more about [Hybrid Deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid)
- [Get started with Hybrid Deployment](/dagster-cloud/getting-started/getting-started-with-hybrid-deployment)

---

## Managing your account

Learn to manage your Dagster Cloud account, including user authentication, monitoring, and alerting.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Managing users"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/managing-users"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Managing user and agent tokens"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/managing-user-agent-tokens"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Setting up alerts"
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/setting-up-alerts"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Configuring authentication

Secure your account using our out-of-the-box support for Google and GitHub SSO, or take full control with SAML SSO:

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-azure-ad-saml-sso"
    title="Azure Active Directory"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-google-workspace-saml-sso"
    title="Google Workspace"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-okta-saml-sso"
    title="Okta"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-onelogin-saml-sso"
    title="OneLogin"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/account/authentication/setting-up-pingone-saml-sso"
    title="PingOne"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Managing a Hybrid Deployment agent

Dagster Cloud uses an agent that is responsible for executing your code. If you're using [Hybrid Deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid), you'll need to spin up and maintain an agent in your infrastructure.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/amazon-ecs"
    title="Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud//deployment/agents/docker"
    title="Docker agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/kubernetes/configuring-running-kubernetes-agent"
    title="Kubernetes agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/local"
    title="Local agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/customizing-configuration"
    title="Customizing agent configuration"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    href="/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/running-multiple-agents"
    title="Running multiple agents"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## Developing and testing

Learn how to deploy your code to Dagster Cloud, use command line tools, and set up CI/CD.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using the dagster-cloud CLI"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Adding and managing Dagster code"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/code-locations"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using Dagster Cloud environment variables"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Using Branch Deployments for Continous Integration (CI)"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Setting up Branch Deployments with GitHub Actions"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments-with-github"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Setting up Branch Deployments with the dagster-cloud CLI"
    href="/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>
