docs/content/guides.mdx, before:

---
title: Guides | Dagster Docs
---

# Guides

Learn to apply [Dagster concepts](/concepts) to your work, explore experimental features, and check out some examples.

---

## General

- [Enriching with Software-defined Assets](/guides/dagster/enriching-with-software-defined-assets) - Learn to enrich what you've built in Dagster with Software-defined assets

- [Using Software-defined assets with Pandas and PySpark](/guides/dagster/software-defined-assets) - A quick introduction to Sofware-defined assets, featuring Pandas and PySpark

- [Transitioning Data Pipelines from Development to Production](/guides/dagster/transitioning-data-pipelines-from-development-to-production) - A walkthrough of how to transition your data pipelines from local development to production

- [Testing Against Production with Dagster Cloud Branch Deployments](/guides/dagster/branch_deployments) - This guide illustrates a workflow that enables testing Dagster code in your cloud environment without impacting your production data

- [Fully Featured Example with Recommended Project Layout](/guides/dagster/example_project) - A walkthrough of a fully featured example project that uses many of Dagster's features

- [Re-executing Dagster jobs](/guides/dagster/re-execution) - Learn to re-execute Dagster jobs using both Dagit and Dagster's APIs

- [Validating data with Dagster Type factories](/guides/dagster/dagster_type_factories) - Explore using a Dagster Type factory to validate Pandas dataframes using Pandera

- [Migrating to graphs, jobs, and ops](https://docs.dagster.io/0.15.7/guides/dagster/graph_job_op) - Migrate to Dagster graphs, jobs, and ops from Dagster solids and pipelines (legacy)

---

## Experimental features

- [Using versioning and memoization](/guides/dagster/memoization) - Learn to use Dagster's versioning and memoization features in job re-execution

- [Using Custom Run Coordinators to perform run attribution](/guides/dagster/run-attribution) - A look at using a Custom Run Coordinator to perform run attribution

Commit message:

Add Best Practices section to guides page

docs/content/guides.mdx, after:

---
title: Guides | Dagster Docs
---

# Guides

Learn to apply [Dagster concepts](/concepts) to your work, explore experimental features, and check out some examples.

---

## General

- [Enriching with Software-defined Assets](/guides/dagster/enriching-with-software-defined-assets) - Learn to enrich what you've built in Dagster with Software-defined assets

- [Using Software-defined assets with Pandas and PySpark](/guides/dagster/software-defined-assets) - A quick introduction to Sofware-defined assets, featuring Pandas and PySpark

- [Re-executing Dagster jobs](/guides/dagster/re-execution) - Learn to re-execute Dagster jobs using both Dagit and Dagster's APIs

- [Validating data with Dagster Type factories](/guides/dagster/dagster_type_factories) - Explore using a Dagster Type factory to validate Pandas dataframes using Pandera

- [Migrating to graphs, jobs, and ops](https://docs.dagster.io/0.15.7/guides/dagster/graph_job_op) - Migrate to Dagster graphs, jobs, and ops from Dagster solids and pipelines (legacy)

---

## Best practices

- [Fully-featured example with recommended project layout](/guides/dagster/example_project) - A look at an example project that demonstrates many of Dagster's features, using our layout recommendations

- [Transitioning data pipelines from development to production](/guides/dagster/transitioning-data-pipelines-from-development-to-production) - Learn how to seamlessly transition your Dagster pipelines from local development to production

- [Testing against production with Dagster Cloud Branch Deployments](/guides/dagster/branch_deployments) - Use Dagster Cloud Branch Deployments to quickly iterate on your Dagster code without impacting production data

---

## Experimental features

- [Using versioning and memoization](/guides/dagster/memoization) - Learn to use Dagster's versioning and memoization features in job re-execution

- [Using Custom Run Coordinators to perform run attribution](/guides/dagster/run-attribution) - A look at using a Custom Run Coordinator to perform run attribution
