docs/content/concepts/resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Resources | Dagster
description: Resources enable you to separate graph logic from environment, and therefore make it easier to test and develop graphs in various environments.
---

# Resources

Resources are objects that are shared across the implementations of multiple [software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) and [ops](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops) and that can be plugged in after defining those ops and assets.

Resources typically model external components that assets and ops interact with. For example, a resource might be a connection to a data warehouse like Snowflake or a service like Slack.

So, why use resources?

- **Plug in different implementations in different environments** - If you have a heavy external dependency that you want to use in production, but avoid using in testing, you can accomplish this by providing different resources in each environment. Check out [Separating Business Logic from Environments](/concepts/testing#separating-business-logic-from-environments) for more info about this capability.
- **Share configuration across multiple ops or assets** - Resources are configurable and shared, so you can supply configuration in one place instead of configuring the ops and assets individually.
- **Share implementations across multiple ops or assets** - When multiple ops access the same external services, resources provide a standard way to structure your code to share the implementations.

---

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="resource" decorator />         | The decorator used to define resources. The decorated function is called a `resource_fn`. The decorator returns a <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />.                                                                 |
| <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />         | Class for resource definitions. You almost never want to use initialize this class directly. Instead, you should use the <PyObject object="resource" decorator /> which returns a <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />. |
| <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/>         | The context object provided to a resource during initialization. This object contains required resource, config, and other run information.                                                                                 |
| <PyObject object="build_init_resource_context"/> | Function for building an <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/> outside of execution, intended to be used when testing a resource.                                                                                        |
| <PyObject object="build_resources"/>             | Function for initializing a set of resources outside of the context of a job's execution.                                                                                                                                   |
| <PyObject object="with_resources"/>              | Function for providing resources to software-defined assets and source assets.                                                                                                                                              |

---

## Defining a resource

To define a resource, use the <PyObject object="resource" decorator/> decorator. Wrap a function that takes an `init_context` as the first parameter, which is an instance of <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/>. From this function, return or yield the object that you would like to be available as a resource.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_example endbefore=end_resource_example
from dagster import resource


class ExternalCerealFetcher:
    def fetch_new_cereals(self, start_ts, end_ts):
        pass


@resource
def cereal_fetcher(init_context):
    return ExternalCerealFetcher()
```

---

## Using resources

- [With software-defined assets](#using-resources-with-software-defined-assets)
- [With ops](#using-resources-with-ops)

### Using resources with software-defined assets

- [Accessing resources](#accessing-resources-in-software-defined-assets)
- [Providing resources](#providing-resources-to-software-defined-assets)

#### Accessing resources in software-defined assets

Software-defined assets use resource keys to access resources:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_asset_use_resource endbefore=end_asset_use_resource
from dagster import asset


@asset(required_resource_keys={"foo"})
def asset_requires_resource(context):
    do_something_with_resource(context.resources.foo)
```

#### Providing resources to software-defined assets

Resources can be provided to software-defined assets using the <PyObject object="with_resources" /> function. This function takes in a sequence of assets and returns transformed versions of those assets with the provided resources specified:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_asset_provide_resource endbefore=end_asset_provide_resource
from dagster import repository, with_resources


@repository
def repo():
    return [
        *with_resources(
            definitions=[asset_requires_resource],
            resource_defs={"foo": foo_resource},
        )
    ]
```

When defining asset jobs (using <PyObject object="define_asset_job" />), you don't need to provide resources to the job directly. The job will make use of the resources provided to the assets.

---

### Using resources with ops

- [Accessing resources](#accessing-resources-in-ops)
- [Providing resources](#providing-resources-to-ops)

#### Accessing resources in ops

Like software-defined assets, ops use resource keys to access resources:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_op_with_resources_example endbefore=end_op_with_resources_example
from dagster import op

CREATE_TABLE_1_QUERY = "create table_1 as select * from table_0"


@op(required_resource_keys={"database"})
def op_requires_resources(context):
    context.resources.database.execute_query(CREATE_TABLE_1_QUERY)
```

#### Providing resources to ops

Jobs provide resources to the ops inside them. A job has a dictionary that maps resource keys to resource definitions. You can supply this dictionary to the `resource_defs` argument when using either of the ways to construct a job: <PyObject object="GraphDefinition" method="to_job" /> or <PyObject object="job" decorator />.

Supplying resources when using <PyObject object="GraphDefinition" method="to_job" /> is especially common, because you can build multiple jobs from the same graph that are distinguished by their different resources.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_graph_example endbefore=end_graph_example
from dagster import graph


@graph
def do_database_stuff():
    op_requires_resources()


do_database_stuff_prod = do_database_stuff.to_job(
    resource_defs={"database": database_resource_a}
)
do_database_stuff_dev = do_database_stuff.to_job(
    resource_defs={"database": database_resource_b}
)
```

Supplying resources to the <PyObject object="job" decorator />, i.e. when there aren't multiple jobs for the same graph, is also useful. For example, if you want to use an off-the-shelf resource or supply configuration in one place instead of in every op.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_job_example endbefore=end_job_example
from dagster import job


@job(resource_defs={"database": database_resource})
def do_database_stuff_job():
    op_requires_resources()
```

---

## Resource configuration

<PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" pluralize /> can have a config schema, which
allows you to customize behavior at runtime through run configuration.

For example, let's say we wanted to pass a connection string to our `DatabaseConnection` resource.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_config endbefore=end_resource_config
class DatabaseConnection:
    def __init__(self, connection: str):
        self.connection = connection


@resource(config_schema={"connection": str})
def db_resource(init_context):
    connection = init_context.resource_config["connection"]
    return DatabaseConnection(connection)
```

---

## Context manager resources

Dagster resources can serve as context managers, for scenarios where it is necessary to perform some sort of cleanup of the resource after execution. Let’s take the example of a database connection. We might want to clean up the connection once we are done using it. We can incorporate this into our resource like so:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_cm_resource endbefore=end_cm_resource
@resource
@contextmanager
def db_connection():
    try:
        db_conn = get_db_connection()
        yield db_conn
    finally:
        cleanup_db_connection(db_conn)
```

At spinup time, Dagster will run the code within the try block, and be expecting a single yield. Having more than one yield will cause an error. The yielded object will be available to code that requires the resource:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_cm_resource_op endbefore=end_cm_resource_op
@op(required_resource_keys={"db_connection"})
def use_db_connection(context):
    db_conn = context.resources.db_connection
    ...
```

Once execution finishes, the finally block of the resource init function will run. In the case of our db_connection resource, this will run the cleanup function.

An important nuance is that resources are initialized (and torn down) once per process. This means that if using the in-process executor, which runs all steps in a single process, resources will be initialized at the beginning of execution, and torn down after every single step is finished executing. In contrast, when using the multiprocess executor (or other out-of-process executors), where there is a single process for each step, at the beginning of each step execution, the resource will be initialized, and at the end of that step’s execution, the finally block will be run.

---

## Testing resource initialization

You can test the initialization of a resource by invoking the resource definition. This will run the underlying decorated function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_testing endbefore=end_resource_testing
from dagster import resource


@resource
def my_resource(_):
    return "foo"


def test_my_resource():
    assert my_resource(None) == "foo"
```

If your resource requires other resources or config, then you can provide a <PyObject object="InitResourceContext" /> object by using the <PyObject object="build_init_resource_context" /> function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_testing_with_context endbefore=end_resource_testing_with_context
from dagster import build_init_resource_context, resource


@resource(required_resource_keys={"foo"}, config_schema={"bar": str})
def my_resource_requires_context(init_context):
    return init_context.resources.foo, init_context.resource_config["bar"]


def test_my_resource_with_context():
    init_context = build_init_resource_context(
        resources={"foo": "foo_str"}, config={"bar": "bar_str"}
    )
    assert my_resource_requires_context(init_context) == ("foo_str", "bar_str")
```

If your resource is a context manager, then you can open it as one using python's `with` syntax.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_test_cm_resource endbefore=end_test_cm_resource
from contextlib import contextmanager
from dagster import resource


@resource
@contextmanager
def my_cm_resource(_):
    yield "foo"


def test_cm_resource():
    with my_cm_resource(None) as initialized_resource:
        assert initialized_resource == "foo"
```

---

## Initializing resources outside of execution

There are scenarios where you might want to reuse the code written within your resources outside of the context of execution. Consider a case where you have a resource `db_connection`, and you want to use that resource outside of the context of an execution. You can use the <PyObject object="build_resources"/> API to initialize this resource outside of execution.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_build_resources_example endbefore=end_build_resources_example
from dagster import resource, build_resources


@resource
def the_credentials():
    ...


@resource(required_resource_keys={"credentials"})
def the_db_connection(init_context):
    get_the_db_connection(init_context.resources.credentials)


def uses_db_connection():
    with build_resources(
        {"db_connection": the_db_connection, "credentials": the_credentials}
    ) as resources:
        conn = resources.db_connection
        ...
```

---

## Resource-to-resource dependencies

Resources can depend upon other resources. Use the `required_resource_keys` parameter of the <PyObject object="resource" decorator/> decorator to specify which resources to depend upon. Access the required resources through the context object provided to the wrapped function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_example endbefore=end_resource_dep_example
from dagster import resource


@resource
def credentials():
    return ("bad_username", "easy_password")


@resource(required_resource_keys={"credentials"})
def client(init_context):
    username, password = init_context.resources.credentials
    return Client(username, password)
```

Now, consider an op that will use the `client` resource:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_op endbefore=end_resource_dep_op
from dagster import graph, op


@op(required_resource_keys={"client"})
def get_client(context):
    return context.resources.client
```

When constructing a job that includes that op, we provide the resource `client`, but also `credentials`, because `client` requires it.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_job endbefore=end_resource_dep_job
@job(resource_defs={"credentials": credentials, "client": client})
def connect():
    get_client()
```

---

## See it in action

For more examples of resources, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news):

- [Hacker News resource](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/hn_resource.py)
- Using resources in ops [1](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/ops/download_items.py) [2](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/ops/dbt.py)
- [Specifying resources on jobs and supplying config](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/jobs/hacker_news_api_download.py)

Commit message:

remove the non-asset version of the hacker news example

docs/content/concepts/resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Resources | Dagster
description: Resources enable you to separate graph logic from environment, and therefore make it easier to test and develop graphs in various environments.
---

# Resources

Resources are objects that are shared across the implementations of multiple [software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) and [ops](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops) and that can be plugged in after defining those ops and assets.

Resources typically model external components that assets and ops interact with. For example, a resource might be a connection to a data warehouse like Snowflake or a service like Slack.

So, why use resources?

- **Plug in different implementations in different environments** - If you have a heavy external dependency that you want to use in production, but avoid using in testing, you can accomplish this by providing different resources in each environment. Check out [Separating Business Logic from Environments](/concepts/testing#separating-business-logic-from-environments) for more info about this capability.
- **Share configuration across multiple ops or assets** - Resources are configurable and shared, so you can supply configuration in one place instead of configuring the ops and assets individually.
- **Share implementations across multiple ops or assets** - When multiple ops access the same external services, resources provide a standard way to structure your code to share the implementations.

---

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="resource" decorator />         | The decorator used to define resources. The decorated function is called a `resource_fn`. The decorator returns a <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />.                                                                 |
| <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />         | Class for resource definitions. You almost never want to use initialize this class directly. Instead, you should use the <PyObject object="resource" decorator /> which returns a <PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" />. |
| <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/>         | The context object provided to a resource during initialization. This object contains required resource, config, and other run information.                                                                                 |
| <PyObject object="build_init_resource_context"/> | Function for building an <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/> outside of execution, intended to be used when testing a resource.                                                                                        |
| <PyObject object="build_resources"/>             | Function for initializing a set of resources outside of the context of a job's execution.                                                                                                                                   |
| <PyObject object="with_resources"/>              | Function for providing resources to software-defined assets and source assets.                                                                                                                                              |

---

## Defining a resource

To define a resource, use the <PyObject object="resource" decorator/> decorator. Wrap a function that takes an `init_context` as the first parameter, which is an instance of <PyObject object="InitResourceContext"/>. From this function, return or yield the object that you would like to be available as a resource.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_example endbefore=end_resource_example
from dagster import resource


class ExternalCerealFetcher:
    def fetch_new_cereals(self, start_ts, end_ts):
        pass


@resource
def cereal_fetcher(init_context):
    return ExternalCerealFetcher()
```

---

## Using resources

- [With software-defined assets](#using-resources-with-software-defined-assets)
- [With ops](#using-resources-with-ops)

### Using resources with software-defined assets

- [Accessing resources](#accessing-resources-in-software-defined-assets)
- [Providing resources](#providing-resources-to-software-defined-assets)

#### Accessing resources in software-defined assets

Software-defined assets use resource keys to access resources:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_asset_use_resource endbefore=end_asset_use_resource
from dagster import asset


@asset(required_resource_keys={"foo"})
def asset_requires_resource(context):
    do_something_with_resource(context.resources.foo)
```

#### Providing resources to software-defined assets

Resources can be provided to software-defined assets using the <PyObject object="with_resources" /> function. This function takes in a sequence of assets and returns transformed versions of those assets with the provided resources specified:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_asset_provide_resource endbefore=end_asset_provide_resource
from dagster import repository, with_resources


@repository
def repo():
    return [
        *with_resources(
            definitions=[asset_requires_resource],
            resource_defs={"foo": foo_resource},
        )
    ]
```

When defining asset jobs (using <PyObject object="define_asset_job" />), you don't need to provide resources to the job directly. The job will make use of the resources provided to the assets.

---

### Using resources with ops

- [Accessing resources](#accessing-resources-in-ops)
- [Providing resources](#providing-resources-to-ops)

#### Accessing resources in ops

Like software-defined assets, ops use resource keys to access resources:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_op_with_resources_example endbefore=end_op_with_resources_example
from dagster import op

CREATE_TABLE_1_QUERY = "create table_1 as select * from table_0"


@op(required_resource_keys={"database"})
def op_requires_resources(context):
    context.resources.database.execute_query(CREATE_TABLE_1_QUERY)
```

#### Providing resources to ops

Jobs provide resources to the ops inside them. A job has a dictionary that maps resource keys to resource definitions. You can supply this dictionary to the `resource_defs` argument when using either of the ways to construct a job: <PyObject object="GraphDefinition" method="to_job" /> or <PyObject object="job" decorator />.

Supplying resources when using <PyObject object="GraphDefinition" method="to_job" /> is especially common, because you can build multiple jobs from the same graph that are distinguished by their different resources.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_graph_example endbefore=end_graph_example
from dagster import graph


@graph
def do_database_stuff():
    op_requires_resources()


do_database_stuff_prod = do_database_stuff.to_job(
    resource_defs={"database": database_resource_a}
)
do_database_stuff_dev = do_database_stuff.to_job(
    resource_defs={"database": database_resource_b}
)
```

Supplying resources to the <PyObject object="job" decorator />, i.e. when there aren't multiple jobs for the same graph, is also useful. For example, if you want to use an off-the-shelf resource or supply configuration in one place instead of in every op.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_job_example endbefore=end_job_example
from dagster import job


@job(resource_defs={"database": database_resource})
def do_database_stuff_job():
    op_requires_resources()
```

---

## Resource configuration

<PyObject object="ResourceDefinition" pluralize /> can have a config schema, which
allows you to customize behavior at runtime through run configuration.

For example, let's say we wanted to pass a connection string to our `DatabaseConnection` resource.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_config endbefore=end_resource_config
class DatabaseConnection:
    def __init__(self, connection: str):
        self.connection = connection


@resource(config_schema={"connection": str})
def db_resource(init_context):
    connection = init_context.resource_config["connection"]
    return DatabaseConnection(connection)
```

---

## Context manager resources

Dagster resources can serve as context managers, for scenarios where it is necessary to perform some sort of cleanup of the resource after execution. Let’s take the example of a database connection. We might want to clean up the connection once we are done using it. We can incorporate this into our resource like so:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_cm_resource endbefore=end_cm_resource
@resource
@contextmanager
def db_connection():
    try:
        db_conn = get_db_connection()
        yield db_conn
    finally:
        cleanup_db_connection(db_conn)
```

At spinup time, Dagster will run the code within the try block, and be expecting a single yield. Having more than one yield will cause an error. The yielded object will be available to code that requires the resource:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_cm_resource_op endbefore=end_cm_resource_op
@op(required_resource_keys={"db_connection"})
def use_db_connection(context):
    db_conn = context.resources.db_connection
    ...
```

Once execution finishes, the finally block of the resource init function will run. In the case of our db_connection resource, this will run the cleanup function.

An important nuance is that resources are initialized (and torn down) once per process. This means that if using the in-process executor, which runs all steps in a single process, resources will be initialized at the beginning of execution, and torn down after every single step is finished executing. In contrast, when using the multiprocess executor (or other out-of-process executors), where there is a single process for each step, at the beginning of each step execution, the resource will be initialized, and at the end of that step’s execution, the finally block will be run.

---

## Testing resource initialization

You can test the initialization of a resource by invoking the resource definition. This will run the underlying decorated function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_testing endbefore=end_resource_testing
from dagster import resource


@resource
def my_resource(_):
    return "foo"


def test_my_resource():
    assert my_resource(None) == "foo"
```

If your resource requires other resources or config, then you can provide a <PyObject object="InitResourceContext" /> object by using the <PyObject object="build_init_resource_context" /> function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_testing_with_context endbefore=end_resource_testing_with_context
from dagster import build_init_resource_context, resource


@resource(required_resource_keys={"foo"}, config_schema={"bar": str})
def my_resource_requires_context(init_context):
    return init_context.resources.foo, init_context.resource_config["bar"]


def test_my_resource_with_context():
    init_context = build_init_resource_context(
        resources={"foo": "foo_str"}, config={"bar": "bar_str"}
    )
    assert my_resource_requires_context(init_context) == ("foo_str", "bar_str")
```

If your resource is a context manager, then you can open it as one using python's `with` syntax.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_test_cm_resource endbefore=end_test_cm_resource
from contextlib import contextmanager
from dagster import resource


@resource
@contextmanager
def my_cm_resource(_):
    yield "foo"


def test_cm_resource():
    with my_cm_resource(None) as initialized_resource:
        assert initialized_resource == "foo"
```

---

## Initializing resources outside of execution

There are scenarios where you might want to reuse the code written within your resources outside of the context of execution. Consider a case where you have a resource `db_connection`, and you want to use that resource outside of the context of an execution. You can use the <PyObject object="build_resources"/> API to initialize this resource outside of execution.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_build_resources_example endbefore=end_build_resources_example
from dagster import resource, build_resources


@resource
def the_credentials():
    ...


@resource(required_resource_keys={"credentials"})
def the_db_connection(init_context):
    get_the_db_connection(init_context.resources.credentials)


def uses_db_connection():
    with build_resources(
        {"db_connection": the_db_connection, "credentials": the_credentials}
    ) as resources:
        conn = resources.db_connection
        ...
```

---

## Resource-to-resource dependencies

Resources can depend upon other resources. Use the `required_resource_keys` parameter of the <PyObject object="resource" decorator/> decorator to specify which resources to depend upon. Access the required resources through the context object provided to the wrapped function.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_example endbefore=end_resource_dep_example
from dagster import resource


@resource
def credentials():
    return ("bad_username", "easy_password")


@resource(required_resource_keys={"credentials"})
def client(init_context):
    username, password = init_context.resources.credentials
    return Client(username, password)
```

Now, consider an op that will use the `client` resource:

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_op endbefore=end_resource_dep_op
from dagster import graph, op


@op(required_resource_keys={"client"})
def get_client(context):
    return context.resources.client
```

When constructing a job that includes that op, we provide the resource `client`, but also `credentials`, because `client` requires it.

```python file=/concepts/resources/resources.py startafter=start_resource_dep_job endbefore=end_resource_dep_job
@job(resource_defs={"credentials": credentials, "client": client})
def connect():
    get_client()
```

---

## See it in action

For more examples of resources, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news_assets):

- [Resource that fetches from the Hacker News API](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news_assets/hacker_news_assets/resources/hn_resource.py)
- [Using a resource in an asset](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news_assets/hacker_news_assets/core/assets/items.py)
