docs/content/concepts/types.mdx, before:

---
title: Types | Dagster
description: The Dagster type system helps you describe what kind of values your ops accept and produce.
---

# Dagster Types

The Dagster type system helps you describe what kind of values your ops accept and produce.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                                           | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" />                             | Class for dagster types.                                                    |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="PythonObjectDagsterType" />                 | A class for defining a Dagster Type whose typecheck is an isinstance check. |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="check_dagster_type" />                      | The method to test a custom Dagster Type.                                   |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="usable_as_dagster_type" decorator />        | A decorator to define how a Python class is used as a Dagster Type.         |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="make_python_type_usable_as_dagster_type" /> | A method to map an existing Python type to a Dagster Type.                  |

## Overview

Each op input and output can be given a Dagster Type.

The type system:

- Is _gradual_ and _optional_. Jobs can run without types specified explicitly, and specifying types in some places doesn't require that types be specified everywhere. Inputs and outputs default to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="Any" /> type.

- Happens at op execution time - each type defines a `type_check_fn` that knows how to check whether values match what it expects. When a type is specified for a op's input, then the type check occurs immediately before the op is executed. When a type is specified for a op's output, then the type check occurs immediately after the op is executed.

- Is complimentary to the [PEP 484](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) Python type system. PEP 484 annotations enable static checks that verify variables and return values match particular Python types, while the Dagster type system enables runtime checks that include arbitrary validation logic.

### DagsterTypes vs Python Types (mypy type-checking)

You should not use manually-defined <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" /> objects in your python type annotations. The simple rule of thumb is to annotate op bodies just as you would a regular function, and if you wish to use a <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" /> alongside your annotations (to perform more complex validation than the default runtime typechecks), you should include this information in the relevant <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputDefinition" /> or <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputDefinition" />.

You can see an example of this pattern [below](#using-dagster-types-with-pep-484-type-annotations).

---

## Defining a Dagster Type

The core API for defining Dagster types is <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" />.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type endbefore=end_basic_even_type
EvenDagsterType = DagsterType(
    name="EvenDagsterType",
    type_check_fn=lambda _, value: isinstance(value, int) and value % 2 is 0,
)
```

Once created, types can be attached to op <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputDefinition" pluralize /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputDefinition" pluralize />.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type_no_annotations endbefore=end_basic_even_type_no_annotations
@op(
    ins={"num": In(EvenDagsterType)},
    out=Out(EvenDagsterType),
)
def double_even(num):
    return num
```

The type system truly shines once the type check expresses richer behavior, such as column-level schema on a dataframe. For example, check out the [Validating Pandas DataFrames with Dagster Types](/integrations/pandas) guide.

## Dagster Types Inferred from Type Hints

If a Python input or output has a PEP 484 type annotation, and a DagsterType is not provided on the corresponding input or output definition, then Dagster will automatically generate a DagsterType that corresponds to the annotated Python type.

In this example, the defined op will end up with a DagsterType named "MyClass" that:

- Shows up in Dagit in the representation of the op.
- Is checked at runtime on the value returned by the op.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_auto_type endbefore=end_auto_type
class MyClass:
    pass


@op
def my_op() -> MyClass:
    return MyClass()
```

If the op in the above example returned an object that was not an instance of MyClass, Dagster would raise an error after executing the op.

## The Nothing Type

Dagster offers a special type called <PyObject object="Nothing" />, which is used when you need to model a dependency between ops where Dagster is passing no data along the edge. See details in the [Nothing dependencies](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/graphs#defining-nothing-dependencies) example.

## Testing a Dagster Type

You can use <PyObject module="dagster" object="check_dagster_type" /> to test the type check function of a custom Dagster Type:

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_test_dagster_type endbefore=end_test_dagster_type
from dagster import check_dagster_type, Dict, Any


def test_dagster_type():

    assert check_dagster_type(Dict[Any, Any], {"foo": "bar"}).success
```

## Examples

### Using Dagster Types with PEP 484 Type Annotations

Dagster types peacefully coexist with Python type annotations. In this example, the inputs and outputs of the op compute function are integers, and the type check function for `EvenDagsterType` will be invoked at runtime to verify that they are even.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type_with_annotations endbefore=end_basic_even_type_with_annotations
@op(
    ins={"num": In(EvenDagsterType)},
    out=Out(EvenDagsterType),
)
def double_even_with_annotations(num: int) -> int:
    return num
```

## See it in action

For more examples of the dagster type system, check out our [Bollinger example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/bollinger)

Commit message:

[docs] - Update types to contain assets (#8341)

docs/content/concepts/types.mdx, after:

---
title: Types | Dagster
description: The Dagster type system helps you describe what kind of values your assets and ops accept and produce.
---

# Dagster Types

The Dagster type system helps you describe what kind of values your software-defined assets and ops accept and produce.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                                           | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" />                             | Class for dagster types.                                                    |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="PythonObjectDagsterType" />                 | A class for defining a Dagster Type whose typecheck is an isinstance check. |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="check_dagster_type" />                      | The method to test a custom Dagster Type.                                   |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="usable_as_dagster_type" decorator />        | A decorator to define how a Python class is used as a Dagster Type.         |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="make_python_type_usable_as_dagster_type" /> | A method to map an existing Python type to a Dagster Type.                  |

## Overview

Op inputs and outputs can be given Dagster Types. Assets can be given Dagster Types to validate their output types.

The type system:

- Is _gradual_ and _optional_. Jobs can run without types specified explicitly, and specifying types in some places doesn't require that types be specified everywhere. Inputs and outputs default to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="Any" /> type.

- Happens at op execution time - each type defines a `type_check_fn` that knows how to check whether values match what it expects. When a type is specified for a op's input, then the type check occurs immediately before the op is executed. When a type is specified for a op's output, then the type check occurs immediately after the op is executed.

- Is complimentary to the [PEP 484](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) Python type system. PEP 484 annotations enable static checks that verify variables and return values match particular Python types, while the Dagster type system enables runtime checks that include arbitrary validation logic.

### DagsterTypes vs Python Types (mypy type-checking)

You should not use manually-defined <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" /> objects in your python type annotations. The simple rule of thumb is to annotate op and asset bodies just as you would a regular function, and if you wish to use a <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" /> alongside your annotations (to perform more complex validation than the default runtime typechecks), you should include this information in the relevant <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputDefinition" /> or <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputDefinition" />.

You can see an example of this pattern [below](#using-dagster-types-with-pep-484-type-annotations).

---

## Defining a Dagster Type

The core API for defining Dagster types is <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterType" />.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type endbefore=end_basic_even_type
EvenDagsterType = DagsterType(
    name="EvenDagsterType",
    type_check_fn=lambda _, value: isinstance(value, int) and value % 2 is 0,
)
```

Once created, types can be attached to op <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputDefinition" pluralize /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputDefinition" pluralize />.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type_no_annotations endbefore=end_basic_even_type_no_annotations
@op(
    ins={"num": In(EvenDagsterType)},
    out=Out(EvenDagsterType),
)
def double_even(num):
    return num
```

Types can be passed into <PyObject object="asset" decorator /> decorated functions. Dagster will validate the outputted asset type after execution:

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_asset_type endbefore=end_asset_type
@asset(dagster_type=EvenDagsterType)
def even_asset(num):
    return num
```

The type system truly shines once the type check expresses richer behavior, such as column-level schema on a dataframe. For example, check out the [Validating Pandas DataFrames with Dagster Types](/integrations/pandas) guide.

## Dagster Types Inferred from Type Hints

If a Python input or output has a PEP 484 type annotation, and a DagsterType is not provided on the corresponding input or output definition, then Dagster will automatically generate a DagsterType that corresponds to the annotated Python type.

In this example, the defined op will end up with a DagsterType named "MyClass" that:

- Shows up in Dagit in the representation of the op.
- Is checked at runtime on the value returned by the op.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_auto_type endbefore=end_auto_type
class MyClass:
    pass


@op
def my_op() -> MyClass:
    return MyClass()
```

If the op in the above example returned an object that was not an instance of MyClass, Dagster would raise an error after executing the op.

## The Nothing Type

Dagster offers a special type called <PyObject object="Nothing" />, which is used when you need to model a dependency between ops where Dagster is passing no data along the edge. See details in the [Nothing dependencies](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/graphs#defining-nothing-dependencies) example.

## Testing a Dagster Type

You can use <PyObject module="dagster" object="check_dagster_type" /> to test the type check function of a custom Dagster Type:

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_test_dagster_type endbefore=end_test_dagster_type
from dagster import check_dagster_type, Dict, Any


def test_dagster_type():

    assert check_dagster_type(Dict[Any, Any], {"foo": "bar"}).success
```

## Examples

### Using Dagster Types with PEP 484 Type Annotations

Dagster types peacefully coexist with Python type annotations. In this example, the inputs and outputs of the op compute function are integers, and the type check function for `EvenDagsterType` will be invoked at runtime to verify that they are even.

```python file=/concepts/types/types.py startafter=start_basic_even_type_with_annotations endbefore=end_basic_even_type_with_annotations
@op(
    ins={"num": In(EvenDagsterType)},
    out=Out(EvenDagsterType),
)
def double_even_with_annotations(num: int) -> int:
    return num
```

## See it in action

For more examples of the dagster type system, check out our [Bollinger example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/bollinger)
