docs/content/community/contributing.mdx, before:

---
title: Contributing | Dagster
description: Contributions are welcome and are greatly appreciated. Here's the contribution guide."
---

# Contributing

We love to see our community members get involved! If you are planning to contribute to Dagster, you will first need to set up a local development environment.

## Environment Setup

### Apple M1-specific setup

If you have a Mac with an M1 chip, you will need to set up a separate environment to emulate an x86 architecture before following the remaining setup instructions. To find out if your Mac has an M1 chip, follow the instructions [here](https://www.howtogeek.com/706226/how-to-check-if-your-mac-is-using-an-intel-or-apple-silicon-processor/).

If you don't have a Mac with an M1 chip, skip ahead to the next section - [Dagster development setup](#dagster-development-setup).

1. Install rosetta. [About rosetta](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/about-the-rosetta-translation-environment).

   ```bash
   softwareupdate --install-rosetta --agree-to-license
   ```

2. Create a duplicate terminal that will default to running the rosetta x86 emulator. [Source stack overflow post](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/428768/on-apple-m1-with-rosetta-how-to-open-entire-terminal-iterm-in-x86-64-architec).

   - Go to `Finder` > `Applications` and find your terminal app.
   - Right click the app and duplicate it.
   - Right click the new terminal > `Get Info` > `Enable Open using Rosetta`.
   - Click to open the terminal, type `arch` to verify it says `i386` now.

3. In your rosetta terminal, install `homebrew`.

   ```bash
   arch -x86_64 /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```

4. To ensure that the correct installation of `homebrew` is automatically used in your rosetta terminal, add the following snippet to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc` or profile manager of choice.

   ```bash
   arch_name="$(uname -m)"

   if [ "${arch_name}" = "x86_64" ]; then
      echo "Running in x86 mode"
      eval $(/usr/local/bin/brew shellenv)
   elif [ "${arch_name}" = "arm64" ]; then
      echo "Running in Arm mode"
      eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)
   else
      echo "Unexpected uname -m result ${arch_name}"
   fi

   # brew libraries
   export LDFLAGS="-L $(brew --prefix openssl)/lib"
   export CFLAGS="-I $(brew --prefix openssl)/include"
   ```

After sourcing this file, you can ensure that the correct version of `homebrew` is being used by confirming the output of `which brew` is `/usr/local/bin/brew`.

### Dagster development setup

1. Install Python. Python 3.6 or above recommended, but our CI/CD pipeline currently tests against up-to-date patch versions of Python 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8.

2. Create and activate a virtualenv, using the tool of your choice. On macOS you can install `pyenv` with Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install pyenv pyenv-virtualenv
   ```

   Then add the following commands to your shell profile:

   ```bash
   eval "$(pyenv init -)"
   eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
   ```

   and finally create and activate the virtualenev:

   ```bash
   pyenv install 3.7.4
   pyenv virtualenv 3.7.4 dagster37
   pyenv activate dagster37
   ```

3. Ensure that you have node installed by running `node -v`, and that you have [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) installed. If you are on macOS, you can install yarn with Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install yarn
   ```

4. Clone the Dagster repository to the destination of your choice:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:dagster-io/dagster.git
   ```

5. Run `make dev_install` at the root of the repository. This sets up a full Dagster developer environment with all modules and runs tests that do not require heavy external dependencies such as docker. This will take a few minutes. Note that certain sections of the makefile (sanity_check, which is part of rebuild_dagit) require POSIX compliant shells and will fail on CMD and powershell -- if developing on windows, using something like WSL or git-bash is recommended. Note also that if this command fails while installing python packages, the problem might be resolved by ensuring you are running an up-to-date version of `pip` (upgrade with `pip install -U pip`).

   ```bash
   make dev_install
   ```

6. Run some tests manually to make sure things are working:

   ```bash
   python -m pytest python_modules/dagster/dagster_tests
   ```

## Developing Dagster

Some notes on developing in Dagster:

- **Black/Pylint**: We use [black](https://github.com/python/black) to enforce a consistent code style, along with [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/). We test these in our CI/CD pipeline.
- **Line Width**: We use a line width of 100.
- **IDE**: We recommend setting up your IDE to format with black on save and check pylint, but you can always run `make black` and `make pylint` in the root Dagster directory before submitting a pull request. If you're also using VS Code, you can see what we're using for our `settings.json` [here](https://gist.github.com/natekupp/7a17a9df8d2064e5389cc84aa118a896).
- **Docker**: Some tests require [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) to be able to run them locally.

## Developing Dagit

For development, run the Dagit GraphQL server on a different port than the webapp, with any pipeline. For example:

```bash
cd dagster/examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/connecting_solids/
dagit -p 3333 -f complex_pipeline.py
```

Keep this running. Then, in another terminal, run the local development (autoreloading, etc.) version of the webapp:

```bash
cd dagster/js_modules/dagit
make dev_webapp
```

During development, you might find these commands useful. Run them from `dagster/js_modules/dagit`:

- `yarn ts`: Typescript typechecking
- `yarn lint`: Linting with autofix
- `yarn jest`: An interactive Jest test runner that runs only affected tests by default

To run all of them together, run `yarn test`.

## Developing Docs

To run the Dagster documentation website locally, run the following commands:

```bash
cd docs
yarn --cwd next dev  # Serves the docs website on http://localhost:3001
```

Troubleshooting tip: You may need to run `yarn --cwd next` (without the `dev` command) first to install dependencies. Also make sure that your Node version is >=12.13.0.

The API documentation is generated from ReStructured Text files (`.rst`), which extracts Python docstrings from the library files. The `.rst` files can be found in the `docs/sections/api/apidocs` directory.

If you change any `.rst` files, be sure to run the following command in the `docs` directory:

```bash
make build
```

## Picking a Github Issue

We encourage you to start with an issue labeled with the tag [`good first issue`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) on the [Github issue board](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues), to get familiar with our codebase as a first-time contributor.

Then, you can work on the issue labeled as [`good second issue`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/labels/good%20second%20issue) which is more like a medium task.

When you are ready for more of a challenge, you can tackle issues with the [most 👍 reactions](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc). We factor engagement into prioritization of the issues. You can also explore other labels and pick any issue based on your interest.

## Submit Your Code

To submit your code, [fork the Dagster repository](https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo), create a [new branch](https://help.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-to-projects/creating-a-branch-for-your-work) on your fork, and open [a Pull Request (PR)](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) once your work is ready for review.

In the PR template, please describe the change, including the motivation/context, test coverage, and any other relevant information. Please note if the PR is a breaking change or if it is related to an open GitHub issue.

A Core reviewer will review your PR in around one business day and provide feedback on any changes it requires to be approved. Once approved and all the tests (including Buildkite!) pass, the reviewer will click the Squash and merge button in Github 🥳.

Your PR is now merged into Dagster! We’ll shout out your contribution in the weekly release notes.

Commit message:

update contributing page to mention isort and how to run black

docs/content/community/contributing.mdx, after:

---
title: Contributing | Dagster
description: Contributions are welcome and are greatly appreciated. Here's the contribution guide."
---

# Contributing

We love to see our community members get involved! If you are planning to contribute to Dagster, you will first need to set up a local development environment.

## Environment Setup

### Apple M1-specific setup

If you have a Mac with an M1 chip, you will need to set up a separate environment to emulate an x86 architecture before following the remaining setup instructions. To find out if your Mac has an M1 chip, follow the instructions [here](https://www.howtogeek.com/706226/how-to-check-if-your-mac-is-using-an-intel-or-apple-silicon-processor/).

If you don't have a Mac with an M1 chip, skip ahead to the next section - [Dagster development setup](#dagster-development-setup).

1. Install rosetta. [About rosetta](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/about-the-rosetta-translation-environment).

   ```bash
   softwareupdate --install-rosetta --agree-to-license
   ```

2. Create a duplicate terminal that will default to running the rosetta x86 emulator. [Source stack overflow post](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/428768/on-apple-m1-with-rosetta-how-to-open-entire-terminal-iterm-in-x86-64-architec).

   - Go to `Finder` > `Applications` and find your terminal app.
   - Right click the app and duplicate it.
   - Right click the new terminal > `Get Info` > `Enable Open using Rosetta`.
   - Click to open the terminal, type `arch` to verify it says `i386` now.

3. In your rosetta terminal, install `homebrew`.

   ```bash
   arch -x86_64 /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```

4. To ensure that the correct installation of `homebrew` is automatically used in your rosetta terminal, add the following snippet to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc` or profile manager of choice.

   ```bash
   arch_name="$(uname -m)"

   if [ "${arch_name}" = "x86_64" ]; then
      echo "Running in x86 mode"
      eval $(/usr/local/bin/brew shellenv)
   elif [ "${arch_name}" = "arm64" ]; then
      echo "Running in Arm mode"
      eval $(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)
   else
      echo "Unexpected uname -m result ${arch_name}"
   fi

   # brew libraries
   export LDFLAGS="-L $(brew --prefix openssl)/lib"
   export CFLAGS="-I $(brew --prefix openssl)/include"
   ```

After sourcing this file, you can ensure that the correct version of `homebrew` is being used by confirming the output of `which brew` is `/usr/local/bin/brew`.

### Dagster development setup

1. Install Python. Python 3.6 or above recommended, but our CI/CD pipeline currently tests against up-to-date patch versions of Python 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8.

2. Create and activate a virtualenv, using the tool of your choice. On macOS you can install `pyenv` with Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install pyenv pyenv-virtualenv
   ```

   Then add the following commands to your shell profile:

   ```bash
   eval "$(pyenv init -)"
   eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
   ```

   and finally create and activate the virtualenev:

   ```bash
   pyenv install 3.7.4
   pyenv virtualenv 3.7.4 dagster37
   pyenv activate dagster37
   ```

3. Ensure that you have node installed by running `node -v`, and that you have [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) installed. If you are on macOS, you can install yarn with Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install yarn
   ```

4. Clone the Dagster repository to the destination of your choice:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:dagster-io/dagster.git
   ```

5. Run `make dev_install` at the root of the repository. This sets up a full Dagster developer environment with all modules and runs tests that do not require heavy external dependencies such as docker. This will take a few minutes. Note that certain sections of the makefile (sanity_check, which is part of rebuild_dagit) require POSIX compliant shells and will fail on CMD and powershell -- if developing on windows, using something like WSL or git-bash is recommended. Note also that if this command fails while installing python packages, the problem might be resolved by ensuring you are running an up-to-date version of `pip` (upgrade with `pip install -U pip`).

   ```bash
   make dev_install
   ```

6. Run some tests manually to make sure things are working:

   ```bash
   python -m pytest python_modules/dagster/dagster_tests
   ```

## Developing Dagster

Some notes on developing in Dagster:

- **Black/Pylint**: We use [black](https://github.com/python/black) to enforce a consistent code style, along with [pylint](https://www.pylint.org/). We test these in our CI/CD pipeline.
  - You can run `make black` from the repo root to automatically format your files.
- **Line Width**: We use a line width of 100.
- **Import ordering**: We use [isort](https://github.com/PyCQA/isort) to standardize the order of imports.
  - You can run "make isort" from the repo root to automatically isort your files.
- **IDE**: We recommend setting up your IDE to format with black on save and check pylint, but you can always run `make black` and `make pylint` in the root Dagster directory before submitting a pull request. If you're also using VS Code, you can see what we're using for our `settings.json` [here](https://gist.github.com/natekupp/7a17a9df8d2064e5389cc84aa118a896).
- **Docker**: Some tests require [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) to be able to run them locally.

## Developing Dagit

For development, run the Dagit GraphQL server on a different port than the webapp, with any pipeline. For example:

```bash
cd dagster/examples/docs_snippets/docs_snippets/intro_tutorial/basics/connecting_solids/
dagit -p 3333 -f complex_pipeline.py
```

Keep this running. Then, in another terminal, run the local development (autoreloading, etc.) version of the webapp:

```bash
cd dagster/js_modules/dagit
make dev_webapp
```

During development, you might find these commands useful. Run them from `dagster/js_modules/dagit`:

- `yarn ts`: Typescript typechecking
- `yarn lint`: Linting with autofix
- `yarn jest`: An interactive Jest test runner that runs only affected tests by default

To run all of them together, run `yarn test`.

## Developing Docs

To run the Dagster documentation website locally, run the following commands:

```bash
cd docs
yarn --cwd next dev  # Serves the docs website on http://localhost:3001
```

Troubleshooting tip: You may need to run `yarn --cwd next` (without the `dev` command) first to install dependencies. Also make sure that your Node version is >=12.13.0.

The API documentation is generated from ReStructured Text files (`.rst`), which extracts Python docstrings from the library files. The `.rst` files can be found in the `docs/sections/api/apidocs` directory.

If you change any `.rst` files, be sure to run the following command in the `docs` directory:

```bash
make build
```

## Picking a Github Issue

We encourage you to start with an issue labeled with the tag [`good first issue`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) on the [Github issue board](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues), to get familiar with our codebase as a first-time contributor.

Then, you can work on the issue labeled as [`good second issue`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/labels/good%20second%20issue) which is more like a medium task.

When you are ready for more of a challenge, you can tackle issues with the [most 👍 reactions](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc). We factor engagement into prioritization of the issues. You can also explore other labels and pick any issue based on your interest.

## Submit Your Code

To submit your code, [fork the Dagster repository](https://help.github.com/en/articles/fork-a-repo), create a [new branch](https://help.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-to-projects/creating-a-branch-for-your-work) on your fork, and open [a Pull Request (PR)](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) once your work is ready for review.

In the PR template, please describe the change, including the motivation/context, test coverage, and any other relevant information. Please note if the PR is a breaking change or if it is related to an open GitHub issue.

A Core reviewer will review your PR in around one business day and provide feedback on any changes it requires to be approved. Once approved and all the tests (including Buildkite!) pass, the reviewer will click the Squash and merge button in Github 🥳.

Your PR is now merged into Dagster! We’ll shout out your contribution in the weekly release notes.
