docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions.mdx, before:

---
title: Partitioned Assets and Jobs | Dagster
description: Partitioned assets and jobs enable launching backfills, where each partition processes a subset of data.
---

# Partitioned Assets and Jobs

Partitioning allows a job or software-defined asset to correspond to a set of entities with identical structure but different parameters.

A _partitioned job_ is a job where each run corresponds to a partition key. Most commonly, each partition key represents a time window, so, when a job executes, it processes data within one of the time windows.

A _partitioned asset_ is an asset that's composed of a set of partitions, which can be materialized and tracked independently. Most commonly, each partition represents all the records in a data set that fall within a particular time window. Depending on where the asset is stored, each partition might correspond to a file or a slice of a table in a database.

It's common to construct a partitioned job that materializes a particular set of partitioned assets every time it runs.

Having defined a partitioned job or asset, you can:

- View runs by partition in Dagit.
- Define a [schedule](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) that fills in a partition each time it runs. For example, a job might run each day and process the data that arrived during the previous day.
- Launch [backfills](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/backfills), which are sets of runs that each process a different partition. For example, after making a code change, you might want to run your job on all time windows instead of just one of them.

---

## Partitioned Assets

### Relevant APIs

| Name                                              | Description                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />        | Superclass - defines the set of partitions that can be materialized for an asset. |
| <PyObject object="HourlyPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a partition for each hour.                           |
| <PyObject object="DailyPartitionsDefinition" />   | A partitions definition with a partition for each day.                            |
| <PyObject object="WeeklyPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a partition for each week.                           |
| <PyObject object="MonthlyPartitionsDefinition" /> | A partitions definition with a partition for each month.                          |
| <PyObject object="StaticPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a fixed set of partitions.                           |

A software-defined asset can be assigned a <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />, which determines the set of partitions that compose it. Once an asset has a set of partitions, you can launch materializations of individual partitions and view the materialization history by partition in Dagit.

For example, below is an asset with a partition for each day since the first day of 2022:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_asset.py
from dagster import DailyPartitionsDefinition, asset


@asset(partitions_def=DailyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-01-01"))
def my_daily_partitioned_asset(context):
    context.log.info(
        f"Processing asset partition '{context.asset_partition_key_for_output()}'"
    )
```

When an asset is unpartitioned, the default IO manager stores it in a file whose location is based on the asset's key. When an asset is partitioned, the default IO manager stores each partition in a separate file, all underneath a directory whose location is based on the asset's key.

To view all partitions for an asset, open the **Definition** tab of the asset's details page. The bar in the **Partitions** section represents all of the partitions for the asset.

In the following image, the partitions bar is entirely gray. This is because none of the partitions have been materialized:

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/partitioned-asset.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

### Materializating partitioned assets

When you materialize a partitioned asset, you choose which partitions to materialize, and Dagster will launch a run for each partition.

**Note**: If you choose more than one partition, the [Dagster Daemon](/deployment/guides/service#running-dagster-daemon) needs to be running to queue the multiple runs.

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/rematerialize-partition.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

After you've materialized a partition, it will show up as green in the partitions bar.

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/materialized-partitioned-asset.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

To view materializations by partition, navigate to the **Activity** tab:

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/materialized-partitioned-asset-activity.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

### Partition Dependencies

When a partitioned asset depends on another partitioned asset, each partition in the downstream asset depends on a partition or multiple partitions in the upstream asset.

A few rules govern partition-to-partition dependencies:

- When the upstream asset and downstream asset have the same <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />, each partition in the downstream asset depends on the same partition in the upstream asset.
- When the upstream asset and downstream asset are both time window-partitioned, each partition in the downstream asset depends on all partitions in the upstream asset that intersect its time window.

  For example, if an asset with a <PyObject object="DailyPartitionsDefinition" /> depends on an asset with an <PyObject object="HourlyPartitionsDefinition" />, then partition `2022-04-12` of the daily asset the would depend on 24 partitions of the hourly asset: `2022-04-12-00:00` through `2022-04-12-23:00`.

## Partitioned Asset Jobs

A partitioned asset job is a job that materializes a particular set of partitioned assets every time it runs.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_asset_job.py
from dagster import (
    AssetSelection,
    HourlyPartitionsDefinition,
    asset,
    define_asset_job,
    repository,
)

hourly_partitions_def = HourlyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-05-31-00:00")


@asset(partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def)
def asset1():
    ...


@asset(partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def)
def asset2():
    ...


partitioned_asset_job = define_asset_job(
    name="asset_1_and_2_job",
    selection=AssetSelection.assets(asset1, asset2),
    partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def,
)


@repository
def repo():
    return [asset1, asset2, partitioned_asset_job]
```

## Partitioned Non-Asset Jobs

### Relevant APIs

| Name                                                       | Description                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" />                    | Determines a set of partitions and how to generate run config for a partition.                      |
| <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator />   | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a date.                       |
| <PyObject object="hourly_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is an hour of a date.            |
| <PyObject object="weekly_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a week.                       |
| <PyObject object="monthly_partitioned_config" decorator /> | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a month.                      |
| <PyObject object="static_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config for a static set of partition keys.                   |
| <PyObject object="dynamic_partitioned_config" decorator /> | Decorator for constructing partitioned config for a set of partition keys that can grow over time.  |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job" />  | A function that constructs a schedule whose interval matches the partitioning of a partitioned job. |

When defining a job that doesn't use software-defined assets, you can make it partitioned by supplying <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> object as its config.

### Defining a Job with Time Partitions

The most common kind of partitioned job is a time-partitioned job - each partition is a time window, and each run for a partition processes data within that time window.

#### Non-Partitioned Job with Date Config

Before we define a partitioned job, let's look at a non-partitioned job that computes some data for a given date:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/date_config_job.py
from dagster import job, op


@op(config_schema={"date": str})
def process_data_for_date(context):
    date = context.op_config["date"]
    context.log.info(f"processing data for {date}")


@job
def do_stuff():
    process_data_for_date()
```

It takes, as config, a string `date`. This piece of config defines which date to compute data for. For example, if you wanted to compute for May 5th, 2020, you would execute the graph with the following config:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/config.yaml
graph:
  process_data_for_date:
    config:
      date: "2020-05-05"
```

#### Date-Partitioned Job

With the job above, it's possible to supply any value for the `date` param, which means that, if you wanted to launch a backfill, Dagster wouldn't know what values to run it on. You can instead build a partitioned job that operates on a defined set of dates.

First, you define the <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig"/>. In this case, because each partition is a date, you can use the <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> decorator. It defines the full set of partitions - every date between the start date and the current date, as well as how to determine the run config for a given partition.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job.py startafter=start_partitioned_config endbefore=end_partitioned_config
from dagster import daily_partitioned_config
from datetime import datetime


@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1))
def my_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")}}
        }
    }
```

Then you can build a job that uses the `PartitionedConfig` by supplying it to the `config` argument when you construct the job:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job.py startafter=start_partitioned_job endbefore=end_partitioned_job
@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    process_data_for_date()
```

#### Dagit Partitions Tab

In Dagit, you can view runs by partition in the Partitions tab of a Job page.

<Image
alt="Partitions Tab"
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/partitioned-job.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

In the "Run Matrix", each column corresponds to one of the partitions in the job. The time listed corresponds to the start time of the partition. Each row corresponds to one of the steps in the job. You can click on an individual box to navigate to logs and run information for the step.

You can view and use partitions in the Dagit Launchpad tab for a job. In the top bar, you can select from the list of all available partitions. Within the config editor, the config for the selected partition will be populated.

In the screenshot below, we select the `2020-01-02` partition, and we can see that the run config for the partition has been populated in the editor.

<Image
alt="Partitions in Dagit Launchpad"
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/launchpad.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

In addition to the <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> decorator, Dagster also provides <PyObject object="monthly_partitioned_config" decorator />, <PyObject object="weekly_partitioned_config" decorator />, <PyObject object="hourly_partitioned_config" decorator />. See the API docs for each of these decorators for more information on how partitions are built based on different `start_date`, `minute_offset`, `hour_offset`, and `day_offset` inputs.

### Defining a Job with Static Partitions

Not all jobs are partitioned by time. Here's a partitioned job where the partitions are continents:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/static_partitioned_job.py
from dagster import job, op, static_partitioned_config

CONTINENTS = [
    "Africa",
    "Antarctica",
    "Asia",
    "Europe",
    "North America",
    "Oceania",
    "South America",
]


@static_partitioned_config(partition_keys=CONTINENTS)
def continent_config(partition_key: str):
    return {"ops": {"continent_op": {"config": {"continent_name": partition_key}}}}


@op(config_schema={"continent_name": str})
def continent_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["continent_name"])


@job(config=continent_config)
def continent_job():
    continent_op()
```

### Creating Schedules from Partitioned Jobs

It's common that, when you have a partitioned job, you want to run it on a schedule. For example, if your job has a partition for each date, you likely want to run that job every day, on the partition for that day.

The <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/> function allows you to construct a schedule from a date partitioned job. It creates a schedule with an interval that matches the spacing of your partition. If you wanted to create a schedule for `do_stuff_partitioned` job defined above, you could write:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster import build_schedule_from_partitioned_job, job


@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    ...


do_stuff_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    do_stuff_partitioned,
)
```

Schedules can also be made from static partitioned jobs. If you wanted to make a schedule for the `continent_job` above that runs each partition, you could write:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_static_partition endbefore=end_static_partition
from dagster import schedule


@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def continent_schedule():
    for c in CONTINENTS:
        request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(partition_key=c, run_key=c)
        yield request
```

Or a schedule that will run a subselection of the partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_single_partition endbefore=end_single_partition
@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def antarctica_schedule():
    request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(
        partition_key="Antarctica", run_key=None
    )
    yield request
```

Refer to the [Schedules documentation](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#schedules-from-partitioned-assets-and-jobs) for more info about constructing both schedule types.

## Testing

### Testing Partitioned Config

Invoking a <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> object will directly invoke the decorated function.

If you want to check whether the generated run config is valid for the config of job, you can use the <PyObject object="validate_run_config" /> function.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_config_test.py startafter=start_partition_config endbefore=end_partition_config
from dagster import validate_run_config, daily_partitioned_config
from datetime import datetime


@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1))
def my_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")}}
        }
    }


def test_my_partitioned_config():
    # assert that the decorated function returns the expected output
    run_config = my_partitioned_config(datetime(2020, 1, 3), datetime(2020, 1, 4))
    assert run_config == {
        "ops": {"process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": "2020-01-03"}}}
    }

    # assert that the output of the decorated function is valid configuration for the
    # do_stuff_partitioned job
    assert validate_run_config(do_stuff_partitioned, run_config)
```

If you want to test that your <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> creates the partitions you expect, you can use the `get_partition_keys` or `get_run_config_for_partition_key` functions.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_config_test.py startafter=start_partition_keys endbefore=end_partition_keys
@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1), minute_offset=15)
def my_offset_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data": {
                "config": {
                    "start": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d-%H:%M"),
                    "end": _end.strftime("%Y-%m-%d-%H:%M"),
                }
            }
        }
    }


@op(config_schema={"start": str, "end": str})
def process_data(context):
    s = context.op_config["start"]
    e = context.op_config["end"]
    context.log.info(f"processing data for {s} - {e}")


@job(config=my_offset_partitioned_config)
def do_more_stuff_partitioned():
    process_data()


def test_my_offset_partitioned_config():
    # test that the partition keys are what you expect
    keys = my_offset_partitioned_config.get_partition_keys()
    assert keys[0] == "2020-01-01"
    assert keys[1] == "2020-01-02"

    # test that the run_config for a partition is valid for do_stuff_partitioned
    run_config = my_offset_partitioned_config.get_run_config_for_partition_key(keys[0])
    assert validate_run_config(do_more_stuff_partitioned, run_config)

    # test that the contents of run_config are what you expect
    assert run_config == {
        "ops": {
            "process_data": {
                "config": {"start": "2020-01-01-00:15", "end": "2020-01-02-00:15"}
            }
        }
    }
```

### Testing Partitioned Jobs

To run a partitioned job in-process on a particular partition, you can supply a value for the `partition_key` argument of <PyObject object="JobDefinition" method="execute_in_process" />

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job_test.py startafter=start endbefore=end
def test_do_stuff_partitioned():
    assert do_stuff_partitioned.execute_in_process(partition_key="2020-01-01").success
```

## See it in action

For more examples of partitions, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news):

- [Defining an hourly partitioned schedule](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/schedules/hourly_hn_download_schedule.py)
- [Specifying the partition to a job](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/jobs/hacker_news_api_download.py)

Commit message:

remove the non-asset version of the hacker news example

docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions.mdx, after:

---
title: Partitioned Assets and Jobs | Dagster
description: Partitioned assets and jobs enable launching backfills, where each partition processes a subset of data.
---

# Partitioned Assets and Jobs

Partitioning allows a job or software-defined asset to correspond to a set of entities with identical structure but different parameters.

A _partitioned job_ is a job where each run corresponds to a partition key. Most commonly, each partition key represents a time window, so, when a job executes, it processes data within one of the time windows.

A _partitioned asset_ is an asset that's composed of a set of partitions, which can be materialized and tracked independently. Most commonly, each partition represents all the records in a data set that fall within a particular time window. Depending on where the asset is stored, each partition might correspond to a file or a slice of a table in a database.

It's common to construct a partitioned job that materializes a particular set of partitioned assets every time it runs.

Having defined a partitioned job or asset, you can:

- View runs by partition in Dagit.
- Define a [schedule](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules) that fills in a partition each time it runs. For example, a job might run each day and process the data that arrived during the previous day.
- Launch [backfills](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/backfills), which are sets of runs that each process a different partition. For example, after making a code change, you might want to run your job on all time windows instead of just one of them.

---

## Partitioned Assets

### Relevant APIs

| Name                                              | Description                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />        | Superclass - defines the set of partitions that can be materialized for an asset. |
| <PyObject object="HourlyPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a partition for each hour.                           |
| <PyObject object="DailyPartitionsDefinition" />   | A partitions definition with a partition for each day.                            |
| <PyObject object="WeeklyPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a partition for each week.                           |
| <PyObject object="MonthlyPartitionsDefinition" /> | A partitions definition with a partition for each month.                          |
| <PyObject object="StaticPartitionsDefinition" />  | A partitions definition with a fixed set of partitions.                           |

A software-defined asset can be assigned a <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />, which determines the set of partitions that compose it. Once an asset has a set of partitions, you can launch materializations of individual partitions and view the materialization history by partition in Dagit.

For example, below is an asset with a partition for each day since the first day of 2022:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_asset.py
from dagster import DailyPartitionsDefinition, asset


@asset(partitions_def=DailyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-01-01"))
def my_daily_partitioned_asset(context):
    context.log.info(
        f"Processing asset partition '{context.asset_partition_key_for_output()}'"
    )
```

When an asset is unpartitioned, the default IO manager stores it in a file whose location is based on the asset's key. When an asset is partitioned, the default IO manager stores each partition in a separate file, all underneath a directory whose location is based on the asset's key.

To view all partitions for an asset, open the **Definition** tab of the asset's details page. The bar in the **Partitions** section represents all of the partitions for the asset.

In the following image, the partitions bar is entirely gray. This is because none of the partitions have been materialized:

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/partitioned-asset.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

### Materializating partitioned assets

When you materialize a partitioned asset, you choose which partitions to materialize, and Dagster will launch a run for each partition.

**Note**: If you choose more than one partition, the [Dagster Daemon](/deployment/guides/service#running-dagster-daemon) needs to be running to queue the multiple runs.

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/rematerialize-partition.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

After you've materialized a partition, it will show up as green in the partitions bar.

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/materialized-partitioned-asset.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

To view materializations by partition, navigate to the **Activity** tab:

<Image
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/materialized-partitioned-asset-activity.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

### Partition Dependencies

When a partitioned asset depends on another partitioned asset, each partition in the downstream asset depends on a partition or multiple partitions in the upstream asset.

A few rules govern partition-to-partition dependencies:

- When the upstream asset and downstream asset have the same <PyObject object="PartitionsDefinition" />, each partition in the downstream asset depends on the same partition in the upstream asset.
- When the upstream asset and downstream asset are both time window-partitioned, each partition in the downstream asset depends on all partitions in the upstream asset that intersect its time window.

  For example, if an asset with a <PyObject object="DailyPartitionsDefinition" /> depends on an asset with an <PyObject object="HourlyPartitionsDefinition" />, then partition `2022-04-12` of the daily asset the would depend on 24 partitions of the hourly asset: `2022-04-12-00:00` through `2022-04-12-23:00`.

## Partitioned Asset Jobs

A partitioned asset job is a job that materializes a particular set of partitioned assets every time it runs.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_asset_job.py
from dagster import (
    AssetSelection,
    HourlyPartitionsDefinition,
    asset,
    define_asset_job,
    repository,
)

hourly_partitions_def = HourlyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-05-31-00:00")


@asset(partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def)
def asset1():
    ...


@asset(partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def)
def asset2():
    ...


partitioned_asset_job = define_asset_job(
    name="asset_1_and_2_job",
    selection=AssetSelection.assets(asset1, asset2),
    partitions_def=hourly_partitions_def,
)


@repository
def repo():
    return [asset1, asset2, partitioned_asset_job]
```

## Partitioned Non-Asset Jobs

### Relevant APIs

| Name                                                       | Description                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" />                    | Determines a set of partitions and how to generate run config for a partition.                      |
| <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator />   | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a date.                       |
| <PyObject object="hourly_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is an hour of a date.            |
| <PyObject object="weekly_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a week.                       |
| <PyObject object="monthly_partitioned_config" decorator /> | Decorator for constructing partitioned config where each partition is a month.                      |
| <PyObject object="static_partitioned_config" decorator />  | Decorator for constructing partitioned config for a static set of partition keys.                   |
| <PyObject object="dynamic_partitioned_config" decorator /> | Decorator for constructing partitioned config for a set of partition keys that can grow over time.  |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job" />  | A function that constructs a schedule whose interval matches the partitioning of a partitioned job. |

When defining a job that doesn't use software-defined assets, you can make it partitioned by supplying <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> object as its config.

### Defining a Job with Time Partitions

The most common kind of partitioned job is a time-partitioned job - each partition is a time window, and each run for a partition processes data within that time window.

#### Non-Partitioned Job with Date Config

Before we define a partitioned job, let's look at a non-partitioned job that computes some data for a given date:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/date_config_job.py
from dagster import job, op


@op(config_schema={"date": str})
def process_data_for_date(context):
    date = context.op_config["date"]
    context.log.info(f"processing data for {date}")


@job
def do_stuff():
    process_data_for_date()
```

It takes, as config, a string `date`. This piece of config defines which date to compute data for. For example, if you wanted to compute for May 5th, 2020, you would execute the graph with the following config:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/config.yaml
graph:
  process_data_for_date:
    config:
      date: "2020-05-05"
```

#### Date-Partitioned Job

With the job above, it's possible to supply any value for the `date` param, which means that, if you wanted to launch a backfill, Dagster wouldn't know what values to run it on. You can instead build a partitioned job that operates on a defined set of dates.

First, you define the <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig"/>. In this case, because each partition is a date, you can use the <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> decorator. It defines the full set of partitions - every date between the start date and the current date, as well as how to determine the run config for a given partition.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job.py startafter=start_partitioned_config endbefore=end_partitioned_config
from dagster import daily_partitioned_config
from datetime import datetime


@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1))
def my_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")}}
        }
    }
```

Then you can build a job that uses the `PartitionedConfig` by supplying it to the `config` argument when you construct the job:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job.py startafter=start_partitioned_job endbefore=end_partitioned_job
@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    process_data_for_date()
```

#### Dagit Partitions Tab

In Dagit, you can view runs by partition in the Partitions tab of a Job page.

<Image
alt="Partitions Tab"
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/partitioned-job.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

In the "Run Matrix", each column corresponds to one of the partitions in the job. The time listed corresponds to the start time of the partition. Each row corresponds to one of the steps in the job. You can click on an individual box to navigate to logs and run information for the step.

You can view and use partitions in the Dagit Launchpad tab for a job. In the top bar, you can select from the list of all available partitions. Within the config editor, the config for the selected partition will be populated.

In the screenshot below, we select the `2020-01-02` partition, and we can see that the run config for the partition has been populated in the editor.

<Image
alt="Partitions in Dagit Launchpad"
src="/images/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions/launchpad.png"
width={2662}
height={1618}
/>

In addition to the <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> decorator, Dagster also provides <PyObject object="monthly_partitioned_config" decorator />, <PyObject object="weekly_partitioned_config" decorator />, <PyObject object="hourly_partitioned_config" decorator />. See the API docs for each of these decorators for more information on how partitions are built based on different `start_date`, `minute_offset`, `hour_offset`, and `day_offset` inputs.

### Defining a Job with Static Partitions

Not all jobs are partitioned by time. Here's a partitioned job where the partitions are continents:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/static_partitioned_job.py
from dagster import job, op, static_partitioned_config

CONTINENTS = [
    "Africa",
    "Antarctica",
    "Asia",
    "Europe",
    "North America",
    "Oceania",
    "South America",
]


@static_partitioned_config(partition_keys=CONTINENTS)
def continent_config(partition_key: str):
    return {"ops": {"continent_op": {"config": {"continent_name": partition_key}}}}


@op(config_schema={"continent_name": str})
def continent_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["continent_name"])


@job(config=continent_config)
def continent_job():
    continent_op()
```

### Creating Schedules from Partitioned Jobs

It's common that, when you have a partitioned job, you want to run it on a schedule. For example, if your job has a partition for each date, you likely want to run that job every day, on the partition for that day.

The <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/> function allows you to construct a schedule from a date partitioned job. It creates a schedule with an interval that matches the spacing of your partition. If you wanted to create a schedule for `do_stuff_partitioned` job defined above, you could write:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster import build_schedule_from_partitioned_job, job


@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    ...


do_stuff_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    do_stuff_partitioned,
)
```

Schedules can also be made from static partitioned jobs. If you wanted to make a schedule for the `continent_job` above that runs each partition, you could write:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_static_partition endbefore=end_static_partition
from dagster import schedule


@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def continent_schedule():
    for c in CONTINENTS:
        request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(partition_key=c, run_key=c)
        yield request
```

Or a schedule that will run a subselection of the partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_single_partition endbefore=end_single_partition
@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def antarctica_schedule():
    request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(
        partition_key="Antarctica", run_key=None
    )
    yield request
```

Refer to the [Schedules documentation](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#schedules-from-partitioned-assets-and-jobs) for more info about constructing both schedule types.

## Testing

### Testing Partitioned Config

Invoking a <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> object will directly invoke the decorated function.

If you want to check whether the generated run config is valid for the config of job, you can use the <PyObject object="validate_run_config" /> function.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_config_test.py startafter=start_partition_config endbefore=end_partition_config
from dagster import validate_run_config, daily_partitioned_config
from datetime import datetime


@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1))
def my_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")}}
        }
    }


def test_my_partitioned_config():
    # assert that the decorated function returns the expected output
    run_config = my_partitioned_config(datetime(2020, 1, 3), datetime(2020, 1, 4))
    assert run_config == {
        "ops": {"process_data_for_date": {"config": {"date": "2020-01-03"}}}
    }

    # assert that the output of the decorated function is valid configuration for the
    # do_stuff_partitioned job
    assert validate_run_config(do_stuff_partitioned, run_config)
```

If you want to test that your <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> creates the partitions you expect, you can use the `get_partition_keys` or `get_run_config_for_partition_key` functions.

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_config_test.py startafter=start_partition_keys endbefore=end_partition_keys
@daily_partitioned_config(start_date=datetime(2020, 1, 1), minute_offset=15)
def my_offset_partitioned_config(start: datetime, _end: datetime):
    return {
        "ops": {
            "process_data": {
                "config": {
                    "start": start.strftime("%Y-%m-%d-%H:%M"),
                    "end": _end.strftime("%Y-%m-%d-%H:%M"),
                }
            }
        }
    }


@op(config_schema={"start": str, "end": str})
def process_data(context):
    s = context.op_config["start"]
    e = context.op_config["end"]
    context.log.info(f"processing data for {s} - {e}")


@job(config=my_offset_partitioned_config)
def do_more_stuff_partitioned():
    process_data()


def test_my_offset_partitioned_config():
    # test that the partition keys are what you expect
    keys = my_offset_partitioned_config.get_partition_keys()
    assert keys[0] == "2020-01-01"
    assert keys[1] == "2020-01-02"

    # test that the run_config for a partition is valid for do_stuff_partitioned
    run_config = my_offset_partitioned_config.get_run_config_for_partition_key(keys[0])
    assert validate_run_config(do_more_stuff_partitioned, run_config)

    # test that the contents of run_config are what you expect
    assert run_config == {
        "ops": {
            "process_data": {
                "config": {"start": "2020-01-01-00:15", "end": "2020-01-02-00:15"}
            }
        }
    }
```

### Testing Partitioned Jobs

To run a partitioned job in-process on a particular partition, you can supply a value for the `partition_key` argument of <PyObject object="JobDefinition" method="execute_in_process" />

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/partitioned_job_test.py startafter=start endbefore=end
def test_do_stuff_partitioned():
    assert do_stuff_partitioned.execute_in_process(partition_key="2020-01-01").success
```

## See it in action

For more examples of partitions, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news_assets):

- [Defining partitioned assets](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news_assets/hacker_news_assets/core/assets/items.py)
- [Defining a partitioned asset job and a schedule based on it](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news_assets/hacker_news_assets/core/\__init\_\_.py)
