docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules.mdx, before:

---
title: Schedules | Dagster
description: A Dagster schedule submits job runs at a fixed interval.
---

# Schedules

A Dagster schedule submits [job](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs) runs at a fixed interval.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                      | Description                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="schedule" decorator />                  | Decorator that defines a schedule that executes according to a given cron schedule.                 |
| <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" />                  | Class for schedules.                                                                                |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job" /> | A function that constructs a schedule whose interval matches the partitioning of a partitioned job. |
| <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" />           | The context passed to the schedule definition execution function                                    |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_context" />              | A function that constructs a `ScheduleEvaluationContext`, typically used for testing.               |

## Overview

A _schedule_ is a definition in Dagster that is used to execute a [job](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs) at a fixed interval. Each time at which a schedule is evaluated is called a _tick_. The schedule definition can generate run configuration for the job on each tick.

Each schedule:

- Targets a single job.
- Optionally defines a function that returns either:
  - One or more <PyObject object="RunRequest"/> objects. Each run request launches a run.
  - An optional <PyObject object="SkipReason"/>, which specifies a message which describes why no runs were requested.

Dagster includes a scheduler, which runs as part of the dagster-daemon process. Once you have defined a schedule, see the [dagster-daemon](/deployment/dagster-daemon) page for instructions on how to run the daemon in order to execute your schedules.

---

## Defining schedules

You define a schedule by constructing a <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" />.

### A basic schedule

Here's a simple schedule that runs a job every day, at midnight. The `cron_schedule` accepts standard [cron expressions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). It also accepts `"@hourly"`, `"@daily"`, `"@weekly"`, and `"@monthly"` if your `croniter` dependency's version is >= 1.0.12.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_basic_schedule endbefore=end_basic_schedule
@job
def my_job():
    ...


basic_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
```

In order to run schedules for assets, you can [build a job that materializes assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#building-jobs-that-materialize-assets) and construct a <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" /> similarly:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_basic_asset_schedule endbefore=end_basic_asset_schedule
from dagster import AssetSelection, define_asset_job

asset_job = define_asset_job("asset_job", AssetSelection.groups("some_asset_group"))

basic_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=asset_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
```

### A schedule that provides custom run config and tags

If you want to vary the behavior of your job based on the time it's scheduled to run, you can use the <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator, which decorates a function that returns run config based on a provided <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" />.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_run_config_schedule endbefore=end_run_config_schedule
@op(config_schema={"scheduled_date": str})
def configurable_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["scheduled_date"])


@job
def configurable_job():
    configurable_op()


@schedule(job=configurable_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
def configurable_job_schedule(context: ScheduleEvaluationContext):
    scheduled_date = context.scheduled_execution_time.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")
    return RunRequest(
        run_key=None,
        run_config={
            "ops": {"configurable_op": {"config": {"scheduled_date": scheduled_date}}}
        },
        tags={"date": scheduled_date},
    )
```

If you don't need access to the context parameter, you can omit it from the decorated function.

### Schedules from partitioned assets and jobs

#### Time partitioned assets and jobs

When you have a [partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions) that's partitioned by time, you can use the <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/> function to construct a schedule for it whose interval matches the spacing of partitions in your job.

For example, if you have a daily partitioned job that fills in a date partition of a table each time it runs, you likely want to run that job every day.

The Partitioned Jobs concepts page includes an [example of how to define a date-partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#date-partitioned-job). Having defined that job, you can construct a schedule for it using <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/>. For example:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster import build_schedule_from_partitioned_job, job


@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    ...


do_stuff_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    do_stuff_partitioned,
)
```

The Partitioned Jobs concepts page also includes an [example of a date-partitioned asset](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#partitioned-assets). You can define a schedule similarly using <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/>:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_partitioned_asset_schedule endbefore=end_partitioned_asset_schedule
from dagster import define_asset_job

partitioned_asset_job = define_asset_job(
    "partitioned_job",
    selection="*",
    partitions_def=HourlyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-05-31", fmt="%Y-%m-%d"),
)


asset_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    partitioned_asset_job,
)
```

Each schedule tick of a partitioned job fills in the latest partition in the partition set that exists as of the tick time. Note that this implies that when the schedule submits a run on a particular day, it will typically be for the partition whose key corresponds to the previous day. For example, the schedule will fill in the `2020-04-01` partition on `2020-04-02`. That's because each partition corresponds to a time window. The key of the partition is the start of the time window, but the partition isn't included in the list until its time window has completed. Waiting until the time window has finished before Kicking off a run means the run can process data from within that entire time window.

However, you can use the `end_offset` parameter of <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> to change which partition is the most recent partition that is filled in at each schedule tick. Setting `end_offset` to `1` will extend the partitions forward so that the schedule tick that runs on day `N` will fill in day `N`'s partition instead of day `N-1`, and setting `end_offset` to a negative number will cause the schedule to fill in earlier days' partitions. In general, setting `end_offset` to `X` will cause the partition that runs on day `N` to fill in the partition for day `N - 1 + X`. The same holds true for hourly, weekly, and monthly partitioned jobs, for their respective partition sizes.

You can use the `minute_of_hour`, `hour_of_day`, `day_of_week`, and `day_of_month` parameters of `build_schedule_from_partitioned_job` to control the timing of the schedule. For example, if you have a job that's partitioned by date, and you set `minute_of_hour` to `30` and `hour_of_day` to `1`, the schedule would submit the run for partition `2020-04-01` at 1:30 AM on `2020-04-02`.

#### Static partitioned job

You can also create a schedule for a static partition. The Partitioned Jobs concepts page also includes an [example of how to define a static partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#defining-a-job-with-static-partitions). To define a schedule for a static partitioned job, we will construct a schedule from scratch, rather than using a helper function like `build_schedule_from_partitioned_job` this will allow more flexibility in determining which partitions should be run by the schedule.

For example, if we have the continents static partitioned job from the Partitioned Jobs concept page

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/static_partitioned_job.py
from dagster import job, op, static_partitioned_config

CONTINENTS = [
    "Africa",
    "Antarctica",
    "Asia",
    "Europe",
    "North America",
    "Oceania",
    "South America",
]


@static_partitioned_config(partition_keys=CONTINENTS)
def continent_config(partition_key: str):
    return {"ops": {"continent_op": {"config": {"continent_name": partition_key}}}}


@op(config_schema={"continent_name": str})
def continent_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["continent_name"])


@job(config=continent_config)
def continent_job():
    continent_op()
```

We can write a schedule that will run this partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_static_partition endbefore=end_static_partition
from dagster import schedule


@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def continent_schedule():
    for c in CONTINENTS:
        request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(partition_key=c, run_key=c)
        yield request
```

Or a schedule that will run a subselection of the partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_single_partition endbefore=end_single_partition
@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def antarctica_schedule():
    request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(
        partition_key="Antarctica", run_key=None
    )
    yield request
```

### Timezones

You can customize the timezone in which your schedule executes by setting the `execution_timezone` parameter on your schedule to any [tz timezone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). Schedules with no timezone set run in UTC.

For example, the following schedule executes daily at 9AM in US/Pacific time:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_timezone endbefore=end_timezone
my_timezone_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(
    job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 9 * * *", execution_timezone="US/Pacific"
)
```

The <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator accepts the same argument. Schedules from partitioned jobs execute in the timezone defined on the partitioned config.

### Daylight Savings Time

Because of Daylight Savings Time transitions, it's possible to specify an execution time that does not exist for every scheduled interval. For example, say you have a daily schedule with an execution time of 2:30 AM in the US/Eastern timezone. On 2019/03/10, the time jumps from 2:00 AM to 3:00 AM when Daylight Savings Time begins. Therefore, the time of 2:30 AM did not exist for the day.

If you specify such an execution time, Dagster runs your schedule at the next time that exists. In the previous example, the schedule would run at 3:00 AM.

It's also possible to specify an execution time that exists twice on one day every year. For example, on 2019/11/03 in US/Eastern time, the hour from 1:00 AM to 2:00 AM repeats, so a daily schedule running at 1:30 AM has two possible times in which it could execute. In this case, Dagster will execute your schedule at the latter of the two possible times.

Hourly schedules will be unaffected by daylight savings time transitions - the schedule will continue to run exactly once every hour, even as the timezone changes. In the example above where the hour from 1:00 AM to 2:00 AM repeats, an hourly schedule running at 30 minutes past the hour would run at 12:30 AM, both instances of 1:30 AM, and then proceed normally from 2:30 AM on.

## Running the scheduler

In order for a schedule to run, it must be started. You can start or stop the schedule in Dagit, or with the `dagster schedule start` and `dagster schedule stop` commands. You can also start your schedule by setting the default status to `DefaultScheduleStatus.RUNNING` in code:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_running_in_code endbefore=end_running_in_code
my_running_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(
    job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 9 * * *", default_status=DefaultScheduleStatus.RUNNING
)
```

If you manually start or stop a schedule in Dagit, that will override any default status that is set in code.

Once your schedule is started, if you're running the [dagster-daemon](/deployment/dagster-daemon) process as part of your deployment, the schedule will begin executing immediately, without needing to restart the dagster-daemon process. See the [Troubleshooting](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#troubleshooting) section below if your schedule has been started but isn't submitting runs.

## Testing Schedules

To test a function decorated by the <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator, you can invoke the schedule definition like it's a regular Python function. The invocation will return run config, which can then be validated using the <PyObject object="validate_run_config" /> function. Below is a test for the `configurable_job_schedule` that we defined in [an earlier section](#a-schedule-that-provides-custom-run-config-and-tags).

It uses <PyObject object="build_schedule_context" /> to construct a <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" /> to provide for the `context` parameter.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedule_examples.py startafter=start_test_cron_schedule_context endbefore=end_test_cron_schedule_context
from dagster import build_schedule_context, validate_run_config


def test_configurable_job_schedule():
    context = build_schedule_context(
        scheduled_execution_time=datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 1)
    )
    run_request = configurable_job_schedule(context)
    assert validate_run_config(configurable_job, run_request.run_config)
```

If your `@schedule`-decorated function doesn't have a context parameter, you don't need to provide one when invoking it.

## See it in action

For more examples of schedules, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news):

- [Defining an hourly partitioned schedule](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/schedules/hourly_hn_download_schedule.py)
- [Specifying the partition to a job](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/jobs/hacker_news_api_download.py)

## Troubleshooting

Try these steps if you're trying to run a schedule and are running into problems.

### Step 1: Is your schedule included in your repository and started?

The left-hand navigation bar in Dagit shows all of the schedules for the currently-selected repository, with a green dot next to each schedule that is running. Make sure that your schedule appears in this list with a green dot. To ensure that Dagit has loaded the latest version of your schedule code, you can press the reload button next to your repository name to reload all the code in your repository.

- If Dagit is unable to load the repository containing your schedule (for example, due to a syntax error or a problem with one of your definitions), there should be an error message in the left nav with a link that will give you more information about the error.
- If the repository is loading, but the schedule doesn't appear in the list of schedules, make sure that your schedule function is included in the list of schedules returned by your repository function.
- If the schedule appears but doesn't have a green dot next to it, click on the name of the schedule, then toggle the switch at the top of the screen to mark it as running.

### Step 2: Is your schedule interval set up correctly?

When you click on your schedule name in the left-hand nav in Dagit, you'll be take to a page where you can view more information about the schedule. If the schedule is running, there should be a "Next tick" row near the top of the page that tells you when the schedule is expected to run next. Make sure that time is what you expect (including the timezone).

### Step 3: Is the schedule interval configured correctly, but it still isn't creating any runs?

It's possible that the `dagster-daemon` process that submits runs for your schedule is not working correctly. If you haven't set up `dagster-daemon` yet, check the [Deploying Dagster](/deployment) section to find the steps to do so.

First, check that the daemon is running. Click on "Status" in the left nav in Dagit, and examine the "Scheduler" row under the "Daemon statuses" section. The daemon process periodically sends out a heartbeat from the scheduler, so if the scheduler daemon is listed as "Not running", that indicates that there's a problem with your daemon deployment. If the daemon ran into an error that caused it to throw an exception, that error will often appear in this UI as well.

If there isn't a clear error on this page, or if the daemon should be sending heartbeats but isn't, you may need to check the logs from the daemon process. The steps to do this will depend on your deployment - for example, if you're using Kubernetes, you'll need to get the logs from the pod that's running the daemon. You should be able to search those logs for the name of your schedule (or `SchedulerDaemon` to see all logs associated with the scheduler) to gain an understanding of what's going wrong.

If the daemon output shows errors about not being able to find the schedule, make sure the daemon is using the same `workspace.yaml` file as Dagit. The daemon does not need to restart in order to pick up changes to the `workspace.yaml` file.

Finally, it's possible that the daemon is running correctly, but there's a problem with your schedule code. Check the "Latest tick" row on the page for your schedule. If there was an error while trying to submit runs for your schedule, there should be a red "Failure" box next to the time. Clicking on the box should display an error with a stack trace showing you why the schedule couldn't execute. If the schedule is working as expected, it should display a blue box instead with information about any runs that were created by that schedule tick.

### Still stuck?

If these steps didn't help and your schedule still isn't running, reach out in Slack or file an issue and we'll be happy to help investigate.

Commit message:

remove the non-asset version of the hacker news example (#8883)

docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules.mdx, after:

---
title: Schedules | Dagster
description: A Dagster schedule submits job runs at a fixed interval.
---

# Schedules

A Dagster schedule submits [job](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs) runs at a fixed interval.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                      | Description                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="schedule" decorator />                  | Decorator that defines a schedule that executes according to a given cron schedule.                 |
| <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" />                  | Class for schedules.                                                                                |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job" /> | A function that constructs a schedule whose interval matches the partitioning of a partitioned job. |
| <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" />           | The context passed to the schedule definition execution function                                    |
| <PyObject object="build_schedule_context" />              | A function that constructs a `ScheduleEvaluationContext`, typically used for testing.               |

## Overview

A _schedule_ is a definition in Dagster that is used to execute a [job](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs) at a fixed interval. Each time at which a schedule is evaluated is called a _tick_. The schedule definition can generate run configuration for the job on each tick.

Each schedule:

- Targets a single job.
- Optionally defines a function that returns either:
  - One or more <PyObject object="RunRequest"/> objects. Each run request launches a run.
  - An optional <PyObject object="SkipReason"/>, which specifies a message which describes why no runs were requested.

Dagster includes a scheduler, which runs as part of the dagster-daemon process. Once you have defined a schedule, see the [dagster-daemon](/deployment/dagster-daemon) page for instructions on how to run the daemon in order to execute your schedules.

---

## Defining schedules

You define a schedule by constructing a <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" />.

### A basic schedule

Here's a simple schedule that runs a job every day, at midnight. The `cron_schedule` accepts standard [cron expressions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). It also accepts `"@hourly"`, `"@daily"`, `"@weekly"`, and `"@monthly"` if your `croniter` dependency's version is >= 1.0.12.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_basic_schedule endbefore=end_basic_schedule
@job
def my_job():
    ...


basic_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
```

In order to run schedules for assets, you can [build a job that materializes assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#building-jobs-that-materialize-assets) and construct a <PyObject object="ScheduleDefinition" /> similarly:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_basic_asset_schedule endbefore=end_basic_asset_schedule
from dagster import AssetSelection, define_asset_job

asset_job = define_asset_job("asset_job", AssetSelection.groups("some_asset_group"))

basic_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=asset_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
```

### A schedule that provides custom run config and tags

If you want to vary the behavior of your job based on the time it's scheduled to run, you can use the <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator, which decorates a function that returns run config based on a provided <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" />.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_run_config_schedule endbefore=end_run_config_schedule
@op(config_schema={"scheduled_date": str})
def configurable_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["scheduled_date"])


@job
def configurable_job():
    configurable_op()


@schedule(job=configurable_job, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")
def configurable_job_schedule(context: ScheduleEvaluationContext):
    scheduled_date = context.scheduled_execution_time.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")
    return RunRequest(
        run_key=None,
        run_config={
            "ops": {"configurable_op": {"config": {"scheduled_date": scheduled_date}}}
        },
        tags={"date": scheduled_date},
    )
```

If you don't need access to the context parameter, you can omit it from the decorated function.

### Schedules from partitioned assets and jobs

#### Time partitioned assets and jobs

When you have a [partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions) that's partitioned by time, you can use the <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/> function to construct a schedule for it whose interval matches the spacing of partitions in your job.

For example, if you have a daily partitioned job that fills in a date partition of a table each time it runs, you likely want to run that job every day.

The Partitioned Jobs concepts page includes an [example of how to define a date-partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#date-partitioned-job). Having defined that job, you can construct a schedule for it using <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/>. For example:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster import build_schedule_from_partitioned_job, job


@job(config=my_partitioned_config)
def do_stuff_partitioned():
    ...


do_stuff_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    do_stuff_partitioned,
)
```

The Partitioned Jobs concepts page also includes an [example of a date-partitioned asset](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#partitioned-assets). You can define a schedule similarly using <PyObject object="build_schedule_from_partitioned_job"/>:

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_partitioned_asset_schedule endbefore=end_partitioned_asset_schedule
from dagster import define_asset_job

partitioned_asset_job = define_asset_job(
    "partitioned_job",
    selection="*",
    partitions_def=HourlyPartitionsDefinition(start_date="2022-05-31", fmt="%Y-%m-%d"),
)


asset_partitioned_schedule = build_schedule_from_partitioned_job(
    partitioned_asset_job,
)
```

Each schedule tick of a partitioned job fills in the latest partition in the partition set that exists as of the tick time. Note that this implies that when the schedule submits a run on a particular day, it will typically be for the partition whose key corresponds to the previous day. For example, the schedule will fill in the `2020-04-01` partition on `2020-04-02`. That's because each partition corresponds to a time window. The key of the partition is the start of the time window, but the partition isn't included in the list until its time window has completed. Waiting until the time window has finished before Kicking off a run means the run can process data from within that entire time window.

However, you can use the `end_offset` parameter of <PyObject object="daily_partitioned_config" decorator /> to change which partition is the most recent partition that is filled in at each schedule tick. Setting `end_offset` to `1` will extend the partitions forward so that the schedule tick that runs on day `N` will fill in day `N`'s partition instead of day `N-1`, and setting `end_offset` to a negative number will cause the schedule to fill in earlier days' partitions. In general, setting `end_offset` to `X` will cause the partition that runs on day `N` to fill in the partition for day `N - 1 + X`. The same holds true for hourly, weekly, and monthly partitioned jobs, for their respective partition sizes.

You can use the `minute_of_hour`, `hour_of_day`, `day_of_week`, and `day_of_month` parameters of `build_schedule_from_partitioned_job` to control the timing of the schedule. For example, if you have a job that's partitioned by date, and you set `minute_of_hour` to `30` and `hour_of_day` to `1`, the schedule would submit the run for partition `2020-04-01` at 1:30 AM on `2020-04-02`.

#### Static partitioned job

You can also create a schedule for a static partition. The Partitioned Jobs concepts page also includes an [example of how to define a static partitioned job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#defining-a-job-with-static-partitions). To define a schedule for a static partitioned job, we will construct a schedule from scratch, rather than using a helper function like `build_schedule_from_partitioned_job` this will allow more flexibility in determining which partitions should be run by the schedule.

For example, if we have the continents static partitioned job from the Partitioned Jobs concept page

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/static_partitioned_job.py
from dagster import job, op, static_partitioned_config

CONTINENTS = [
    "Africa",
    "Antarctica",
    "Asia",
    "Europe",
    "North America",
    "Oceania",
    "South America",
]


@static_partitioned_config(partition_keys=CONTINENTS)
def continent_config(partition_key: str):
    return {"ops": {"continent_op": {"config": {"continent_name": partition_key}}}}


@op(config_schema={"continent_name": str})
def continent_op(context):
    context.log.info(context.op_config["continent_name"])


@job(config=continent_config)
def continent_job():
    continent_op()
```

We can write a schedule that will run this partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_static_partition endbefore=end_static_partition
from dagster import schedule


@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def continent_schedule():
    for c in CONTINENTS:
        request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(partition_key=c, run_key=c)
        yield request
```

Or a schedule that will run a subselection of the partition

```python file=/concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedule_from_partitions.py startafter=start_single_partition endbefore=end_single_partition
@schedule(cron_schedule="0 0 * * *", job=continent_job)
def antarctica_schedule():
    request = continent_job.run_request_for_partition(
        partition_key="Antarctica", run_key=None
    )
    yield request
```

### Timezones

You can customize the timezone in which your schedule executes by setting the `execution_timezone` parameter on your schedule to any [tz timezone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). Schedules with no timezone set run in UTC.

For example, the following schedule executes daily at 9AM in US/Pacific time:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_timezone endbefore=end_timezone
my_timezone_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(
    job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 9 * * *", execution_timezone="US/Pacific"
)
```

The <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator accepts the same argument. Schedules from partitioned jobs execute in the timezone defined on the partitioned config.

### Daylight Savings Time

Because of Daylight Savings Time transitions, it's possible to specify an execution time that does not exist for every scheduled interval. For example, say you have a daily schedule with an execution time of 2:30 AM in the US/Eastern timezone. On 2019/03/10, the time jumps from 2:00 AM to 3:00 AM when Daylight Savings Time begins. Therefore, the time of 2:30 AM did not exist for the day.

If you specify such an execution time, Dagster runs your schedule at the next time that exists. In the previous example, the schedule would run at 3:00 AM.

It's also possible to specify an execution time that exists twice on one day every year. For example, on 2019/11/03 in US/Eastern time, the hour from 1:00 AM to 2:00 AM repeats, so a daily schedule running at 1:30 AM has two possible times in which it could execute. In this case, Dagster will execute your schedule at the latter of the two possible times.

Hourly schedules will be unaffected by daylight savings time transitions - the schedule will continue to run exactly once every hour, even as the timezone changes. In the example above where the hour from 1:00 AM to 2:00 AM repeats, an hourly schedule running at 30 minutes past the hour would run at 12:30 AM, both instances of 1:30 AM, and then proceed normally from 2:30 AM on.

## Running the scheduler

In order for a schedule to run, it must be started. You can start or stop the schedule in Dagit, or with the `dagster schedule start` and `dagster schedule stop` commands. You can also start your schedule by setting the default status to `DefaultScheduleStatus.RUNNING` in code:

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedules.py startafter=start_running_in_code endbefore=end_running_in_code
my_running_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(
    job=my_job, cron_schedule="0 9 * * *", default_status=DefaultScheduleStatus.RUNNING
)
```

If you manually start or stop a schedule in Dagit, that will override any default status that is set in code.

Once your schedule is started, if you're running the [dagster-daemon](/deployment/dagster-daemon) process as part of your deployment, the schedule will begin executing immediately, without needing to restart the dagster-daemon process. See the [Troubleshooting](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules#troubleshooting) section below if your schedule has been started but isn't submitting runs.

## Testing Schedules

To test a function decorated by the <PyObject object="schedule" decorator /> decorator, you can invoke the schedule definition like it's a regular Python function. The invocation will return run config, which can then be validated using the <PyObject object="validate_run_config" /> function. Below is a test for the `configurable_job_schedule` that we defined in [an earlier section](#a-schedule-that-provides-custom-run-config-and-tags).

It uses <PyObject object="build_schedule_context" /> to construct a <PyObject object="ScheduleEvaluationContext" /> to provide for the `context` parameter.

```python file=concepts/partitions_schedules_sensors/schedules/schedule_examples.py startafter=start_test_cron_schedule_context endbefore=end_test_cron_schedule_context
from dagster import build_schedule_context, validate_run_config


def test_configurable_job_schedule():
    context = build_schedule_context(
        scheduled_execution_time=datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 1)
    )
    run_request = configurable_job_schedule(context)
    assert validate_run_config(configurable_job, run_request.run_config)
```

If your `@schedule`-decorated function doesn't have a context parameter, you don't need to provide one when invoking it.

## See it in action

For more examples of schedules, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news_assets):

- [Defining a partitioned asset job and a schedule based on it](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news_assets/hacker_news_assets/core/\__init\_\_.py)

## Troubleshooting

Try these steps if you're trying to run a schedule and are running into problems.

### Step 1: Is your schedule included in your repository and started?

The left-hand navigation bar in Dagit shows all of the schedules for the currently-selected repository, with a green dot next to each schedule that is running. Make sure that your schedule appears in this list with a green dot. To ensure that Dagit has loaded the latest version of your schedule code, you can press the reload button next to your repository name to reload all the code in your repository.

- If Dagit is unable to load the repository containing your schedule (for example, due to a syntax error or a problem with one of your definitions), there should be an error message in the left nav with a link that will give you more information about the error.
- If the repository is loading, but the schedule doesn't appear in the list of schedules, make sure that your schedule function is included in the list of schedules returned by your repository function.
- If the schedule appears but doesn't have a green dot next to it, click on the name of the schedule, then toggle the switch at the top of the screen to mark it as running.

### Step 2: Is your schedule interval set up correctly?

When you click on your schedule name in the left-hand nav in Dagit, you'll be take to a page where you can view more information about the schedule. If the schedule is running, there should be a "Next tick" row near the top of the page that tells you when the schedule is expected to run next. Make sure that time is what you expect (including the timezone).

### Step 3: Is the schedule interval configured correctly, but it still isn't creating any runs?

It's possible that the `dagster-daemon` process that submits runs for your schedule is not working correctly. If you haven't set up `dagster-daemon` yet, check the [Deploying Dagster](/deployment) section to find the steps to do so.

First, check that the daemon is running. Click on "Status" in the left nav in Dagit, and examine the "Scheduler" row under the "Daemon statuses" section. The daemon process periodically sends out a heartbeat from the scheduler, so if the scheduler daemon is listed as "Not running", that indicates that there's a problem with your daemon deployment. If the daemon ran into an error that caused it to throw an exception, that error will often appear in this UI as well.

If there isn't a clear error on this page, or if the daemon should be sending heartbeats but isn't, you may need to check the logs from the daemon process. The steps to do this will depend on your deployment - for example, if you're using Kubernetes, you'll need to get the logs from the pod that's running the daemon. You should be able to search those logs for the name of your schedule (or `SchedulerDaemon` to see all logs associated with the scheduler) to gain an understanding of what's going wrong.

If the daemon output shows errors about not being able to find the schedule, make sure the daemon is using the same `workspace.yaml` file as Dagit. The daemon does not need to restart in order to pick up changes to the `workspace.yaml` file.

Finally, it's possible that the daemon is running correctly, but there's a problem with your schedule code. Check the "Latest tick" row on the page for your schedule. If there was an error while trying to submit runs for your schedule, there should be a red "Failure" box next to the time. Clicking on the box should display an error with a stack trace showing you why the schedule couldn't execute. If the schedule is working as expected, it should display a blue box instead with information about any runs that were created by that schedule tick.

### Still stuck?

If these steps didn't help and your schedule still isn't running, reach out in Slack or file an issue and we'll be happy to help investigate.
