docs/content/concepts/io-management/io-managers.mdx, before:

---
title: IO Managers | Dagster
description: IO Managers determine how to store op outputs and load op inputs.
---

# IO Managers

IO Managers are user-provided objects that store op outputs and load them as inputs to downstream ops.

<Image
alt="IO Manager Diagram"
src="/images/io-managers.png"
width={3200}
height={1040}
/>

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" decorator /> | A decorator used to define IO managers.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" />            | Base class for user-provided IO managers.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| <PyObject object="build_input_context"/>                    | Function for directly constructing a <PyObject object="InputContext"/>, to be passed to the <PyObject object="IOManager" method="load_input"/> method. This is designed primarily for testing purposes.     |
| <PyObject object="build_output_context"/>                   | Function for directly constructing a <PyObject object="OutputContext"/>, to be passed to the <PyObject object="IOManager" method="handle_output"/> method. This is designed primarily for testing purposes. |

## Overview

Dagster ops have [inputs and outputs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops#inputs-and-outputs). When an op returns an output and a downstream op takes that output as an input, where does the data live in between? <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" pluralize /> let the user decide.

The IO manager APIs make it easy to separate code that's responsible for logical data transformation from code that's responsible for reading and writing the results. Ops can focus on business logic, while IO managers handle I/O. This separation makes it easier to test the business logic and run it in different environments.

Not all inputs depend on upstream outputs. The [Unconnected Inputs](/concepts/io-management/unconnected-inputs) overview covers <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterTypeLoader" pluralize /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="RootInputManager" displayText="RootInputManagers (experimental)" />, which let you decide how inputs at the beginning of a job are loaded.

### Outputs and downstream inputs

<PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" pluralize /> are user-provided objects
that are responsible for storing the output of an op and loading it as input to downstream
ops. For example, an IO Manager might store and load objects from files on a filesystem.

Each op output can have its own IOManager, or multiple op outputs can share an IOManager. The IOManager that's used for handling a particular op output is automatically used for loading it in downstream ops.

<Image
alt="two-io-managers"
src="/images/concepts/two-io-managers.png"
width={3200}
height={1040}
/>

<!-- https://excalidraw.com/#json=4546514944786432,52cpcHHoWfzOMro2eFC6MQ -->

This diagram shows a job with two IO managers, each of which is shared across a few inputs and outputs.

The default IOManager, <PyObject module="dagster" object="fs_io_manager" />, stores and retrieves values in the filesystem while pickling. If a job is invoked via <PyObject object="JobDefinition" method="execute_in_process" />, the default IOManager is switched to <PyObject module="dagster" object="mem_io_manager"/>, which stores outputs in memory. Dagster provides out-of-the-box IOManagers that pickle objects and save them. These are <PyObject module="dagster_aws.s3" object="s3_pickle_io_manager"/> , <PyObject module="dagster_azure.adls2" object="adls2_pickle_io_manager"/> , or <PyObject module="dagster_gcp.gcs" object="gcs_pickle_io_manager"/>.

IOManagers are [resources](/concepts/resources), which means users can supply different IOManagers for the same op outputs in different situations. For example, you might use an in-memory IOManager for unit-testing a job and an S3IOManager in production.

---

## Using an IO manager

### Job-wide IO manager

By default, all the inputs and outputs in a job use the same IOManager. This IOManager is determined by the <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" /> provided for the `"io_manager"` resource key. `"io_manager"` is a resource key that Dagster reserves specifically for this purpose.

Here’s how to specify that all op outputs are stored using the <PyObject module="dagster" object="fs_io_manager" />, which pickles outputs and stores them on the local filesystem. It stores files in a directory with the run ID in the path, so that outputs from prior runs will never be overwritten.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/default_io_manager.py
from dagster import fs_io_manager, job, op


@op
def op_1():
    return 1


@op
def op_2(a):
    return a + 1


@job(resource_defs={"io_manager": fs_io_manager})
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

### Per-output IO manager

Not all the outputs in a job should necessarily be stored the same way. Maybe some of the outputs should live on the filesystem so they can be inspected, and others can be transiently stored in memory.

To select the IOManager for a particular output, you can set an `io_manager_key` on <PyObject module="dagster" object="Out" />, and then refer to that `io_manager_key` when setting IO managers in your job. In this example, the output of `op_1` will go to `fs_io_manager` and the output of `op_2` will go to `s3_pickle_io_manager`.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/io_manager_per_output.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster_aws.s3 import s3_pickle_io_manager, s3_resource

from dagster import Out, fs_io_manager, job, op


@op(out=Out(io_manager_key="fs"))
def op_1():
    return 1


@op(out=Out(io_manager_key="s3_io"))
def op_2(a):
    return a + 1


@job(
    resource_defs={
        "fs": fs_io_manager,
        "s3_io": s3_pickle_io_manager,
        "s3": s3_resource,
    }
)
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

## Defining an IO manager

If you have specific requirements for where and how your outputs should be stored and retrieved, you can define your own IOManager. This boils down to implementing two functions: one that stores outputs and one that loads inputs.

To define an IO manager, use the <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" displayText="@io_manager" /> decorator.

```python
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        write_csv("some/path")

    def load_input(self, context):
        return read_csv("some/path")

@io_manager
def my_io_manager(init_context):
    return MyIOManager()
```

The <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" /> decorator behaves nearly identically to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="resource" /> decorator. It yields an <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManagerDefinition" />, which is a subclass of <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" /> that will produce an <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" />.

The provided `context` argument for `handle_output` is an <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />. The provided `context` argument for `load_input` is an <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputContext" />. The linked API documentation lists all the fields that are available on these objects.

### Accessing the partition key

IO managers interoperate smoothly with [partitions](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions). You can access the partition key for the current run using the `context` for both `load_input` and `handle_output`. If working with [assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), you can also access the asset-specific partition key or partition key range, though most of the time the run partition key will be equal to the asset partition key.

```python literalinclude file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_partitioned_marker endbefore=end_partitioned_marker
from dagster import IOManager


class MyPartitionedIOManager(IOManager):
    def path_for_partition(self, partition_key):
        return f"some/path/{partition_key}.csv"

    # `context.partition_key` is the run-scoped partition key
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        write_csv(self.path_for_partition(context.partition_key), obj)

    # `context.asset_partition_key` is set to the partition key for an asset
    # (if the `IOManager` is handling an asset). This is usually equal to the
    # run `partition_key`.
    def load_input(self, context):
        return read_csv(self.path_for_partition(context.asset_partition_key))
```

## Examples

### A custom IO manager that stores Pandas DataFrames in tables

If your ops produce Pandas DataFrames that populate tables in a data warehouse, you might write something like the following. This IO manager uses the name assigned to the output as the name of the table to write the output to.

```python literalinclude file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_df_marker endbefore=end_df_marker
from dagster import IOManager, io_manager


class DataframeTableIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        # name is the name given to the Out that we're storing for
        table_name = context.name
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        # upstream_output.name is the name given to the Out that we're loading for
        table_name = context.upstream_output.name
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)


@io_manager
def df_table_io_manager(_):
    return DataframeTableIOManager()


@job(resource_defs={"io_manager": df_table_io_manager})
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

### Providing per-output config to an IO manager

When launching a run, you might want to parameterize how particular outputs are stored.

For example, if your job produces DataFrames to populate tables in a data warehouse, you might want to specify the table that each output goes to at run launch time.

To accomplish this, you can define an `output_config_schema` on the IO manager definition. The IOManager methods can access this config when storing or loading data, via the <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/output_config.py startafter=io_manager_start_marker endbefore=io_manager_end_marker
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.config["table"]
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.config["table"]
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)


@io_manager(output_config_schema={"table": str})
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()
```

Then, when executing a job, you can pass in this per-output config.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/output_config.py startafter=execute_start_marker endbefore=execute_end_marker
def execute_my_job_with_config():
    @job(resource_defs={"io_manager": my_io_manager})
    def my_job():
        op_2(op_1())

    my_job.execute_in_process(
        run_config={
            "ops": {
                "op_1": {"outputs": {"result": {"table": "table1"}}},
                "op_2": {"outputs": {"result": {"table": "table2"}}},
            }
        },
    )
```

### Providing per-output metadata to an IO manager

You might want to provide static metadata that controls how particular outputs are stored. You don't plan to change the metadata at runtime, so it makes more sense to attach it to a definition rather than expose it as a configuration option.

For example, if your job produces DataFrames to populate tables in a data warehouse, you might want to specify that each output always goes to a particular table. To accomplish this, you can define `metadata` on each <PyObject module="dagster" object="Out" />:

```python file=/concepts/io_management/metadata.py startafter=ops_start_marker endbefore=ops_end_marker
@op(out=Out(metadata={"schema": "some_schema", "table": "some_table"}))
def op_1():
    """Return a Pandas DataFrame"""


@op(out=Out(metadata={"schema": "other_schema", "table": "other_table"}))
def op_2(_input_dataframe):
    """Return a Pandas DataFrame"""
```

The IOManager can then access this metadata when storing or retrieving data, via the <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />.

In this case, the table names are encoded in the job definition. If, instead, you want to be able to set them at run time, the next section describes how.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/metadata.py startafter=io_manager_start_marker endbefore=io_manager_end_marker
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.metadata["table"]
        schema = context.metadata["schema"]
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, schema=schema, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.metadata["table"]
        schema = context.upstream_output.metadata["schema"]
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name, schema=schema)


@io_manager
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()
```

## Testing an IO manager

The easiest way to test an IO manager is to construct an <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" /> or <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputContext" /> and pass it to the `handle_output` or `load_input` method of the IO manager. The <PyObject object="build_output_context" /> and <PyObject object="build_input_context" /> functions allow for easy construction of these contexts.

Here's an example for a simple IO manager that stores outputs in an in-memory dictionary that's keyed on the step and name of the output.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/test_io_manager.py
from dagster import IOManager, build_input_context, build_output_context, io_manager


class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def __init__(self):
        self.storage_dict = {}

    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        self.storage_dict[(context.step_key, context.name)] = obj

    def load_input(self, context):
        return self.storage_dict[
            (context.upstream_output.step_key, context.upstream_output.name)
        ]


@io_manager
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()


def test_my_io_manager_handle_output():
    manager = my_io_manager(None)
    context = build_output_context(name="abc", step_key="123")
    manager.handle_output(context, 5)
    assert manager.storage_dict[("123", "abc")] == 5


def test_my_io_manager_load_input():
    manager = my_io_manager(None)
    manager.storage_dict[("123", "abc")] = 5

    context = build_input_context(
        upstream_output=build_output_context(name="abc", step_key="123")
    )
    assert manager.load_input(context) == 5
```

## Yielding metadata from an IOManager <Experimental />

Sometimes, you may want to record some metadata while handling an output in an IOManager. To do this, you can optionally yield <PyObject object="MetadataEntry"/> objects from within the body of the `handle_output` function. Using this, we can modify one of the [above examples](/concepts/io-management/io-managers#a-custom-io-manager-that-stores-pandas-dataframes-in-tables) to now include some helpful metadata in the log:

```python file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_metadata_marker endbefore=end_metadata_marker
class DataframeTableIOManagerWithMetadata(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.name
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

        # attach these to the Handled Output event
        yield MetadataEntry.int(len(obj), label="number of rows")
        yield MetadataEntry.text(table_name, label="table name")

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.name
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)
```

Any entries yielded this way will be attached to the `Handled Output` event for this output.

Additionally, if you have specified that this `handle_output` function will be writing to an asset by defining a `get_output_asset_key` function, these metadata entries will also be attached to the materialization event created for that asset. You can learn more about this functionality in the [Asset Docs](/concepts/assets/asset-materializations).

## See it in action

For more examples of IO Managers, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news):

- [Snowflake IO Manager](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/snowflake_io_manager.py)
- [Parquet IO Manager](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/parquet_io_manager.py)
- [S3 IO Manager with custom bucket](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/common_bucket_s3\_pickle_io_manager.py)

Our [Bollinger example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/bollinger) and [New York Times example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/nyt-feed) also cover writing custom IO Managers.

Commit message:

[docs] Asset storage description in filesystem IO Manager docs (#8240)

docs/content/concepts/io-management/io-managers.mdx, after:

---
title: IO Managers | Dagster
description: IO Managers determine how to store op outputs and load op inputs.
---

# IO Managers

IO Managers are user-provided objects that store op outputs and load them as inputs to downstream ops.

<Image
alt="IO Manager Diagram"
src="/images/io-managers.png"
width={3200}
height={1040}
/>

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" decorator /> | A decorator used to define IO managers.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" />            | Base class for user-provided IO managers.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| <PyObject object="build_input_context"/>                    | Function for directly constructing a <PyObject object="InputContext"/>, to be passed to the <PyObject object="IOManager" method="load_input"/> method. This is designed primarily for testing purposes.     |
| <PyObject object="build_output_context"/>                   | Function for directly constructing a <PyObject object="OutputContext"/>, to be passed to the <PyObject object="IOManager" method="handle_output"/> method. This is designed primarily for testing purposes. |

## Overview

Dagster ops have [inputs and outputs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops#inputs-and-outputs). When an op returns an output and a downstream op takes that output as an input, where does the data live in between? <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" pluralize /> let the user decide.

The IO manager APIs make it easy to separate code that's responsible for logical data transformation from code that's responsible for reading and writing the results. Ops can focus on business logic, while IO managers handle I/O. This separation makes it easier to test the business logic and run it in different environments.

Not all inputs depend on upstream outputs. The [Unconnected Inputs](/concepts/io-management/unconnected-inputs) overview covers <PyObject module="dagster" object="DagsterTypeLoader" pluralize /> and <PyObject module="dagster" object="RootInputManager" displayText="RootInputManagers (experimental)" />, which let you decide how inputs at the beginning of a job are loaded.

### Outputs and downstream inputs

<PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" pluralize /> are user-provided objects
that are responsible for storing the output of an op and loading it as input to downstream
ops. For example, an IO Manager might store and load objects from files on a filesystem.

Each op output can have its own IO manager, or multiple op outputs can share an IO manager. The IO manager that's used for handling a particular op output is automatically used for loading it in downstream ops.

<Image
alt="two-io-managers"
src="/images/concepts/two-io-managers.png"
width={3200}
height={1040}
/>

<!-- https://excalidraw.com/#json=4546514944786432,52cpcHHoWfzOMro2eFC6MQ -->

This diagram shows a job with two IO managers, each of which is shared across a few inputs and outputs.

The default IO manager, <PyObject module="dagster" object="fs_io_manager" />, stores and retrieves values in the filesystem while pickling. If a job is invoked via <PyObject object="JobDefinition" method="execute_in_process" />, the default IO manager is switched to <PyObject module="dagster" object="mem_io_manager"/>, which stores outputs in memory.

Dagster provides out-of-the-box IO managers that pickle objects and save them. These are <PyObject module="dagster_aws.s3" object="s3_pickle_io_manager"/> , <PyObject module="dagster_azure.adls2" object="adls2_pickle_io_manager"/> , or <PyObject module="dagster_gcp.gcs" object="gcs_pickle_io_manager"/>. These filesystem IO managers, along with <PyObject module="dagster" object="fs_io_manager" />, store op outputs at a unique path identified by the run ID, step key, and output name. These IO managers will output assets at a unique path identified by the asset key.

IO managers are [resources](/concepts/resources), which means users can supply different IOManagers for the same op outputs in different situations. For example, you might use an in-memory IOManager for unit-testing a job and an S3IOManager in production.

---

## Using an IO manager

### Job-wide IO manager

By default, all the inputs and outputs in a job use the same IOManager. This IOManager is determined by the <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" /> provided for the `"io_manager"` resource key. `"io_manager"` is a resource key that Dagster reserves specifically for this purpose.

Here’s how to specify that all op outputs are stored using the <PyObject module="dagster" object="fs_io_manager" />, which pickles outputs and stores them on the local filesystem. It stores files in a directory with the run ID in the path, so that outputs from prior runs will never be overwritten.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/default_io_manager.py
from dagster import fs_io_manager, job, op


@op
def op_1():
    return 1


@op
def op_2(a):
    return a + 1


@job(resource_defs={"io_manager": fs_io_manager})
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

### Per-output IO manager

Not all the outputs in a job should necessarily be stored the same way. Maybe some of the outputs should live on the filesystem so they can be inspected, and others can be transiently stored in memory.

To select the IO manager for a particular output, you can set an `io_manager_key` on <PyObject module="dagster" object="Out" />, and then refer to that `io_manager_key` when setting IO managers in your job. In this example, the output of `op_1` will go to `fs_io_manager` and the output of `op_2` will go to `s3_pickle_io_manager`.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/io_manager_per_output.py startafter=start_marker endbefore=end_marker
from dagster_aws.s3 import s3_pickle_io_manager, s3_resource

from dagster import Out, fs_io_manager, job, op


@op(out=Out(io_manager_key="fs"))
def op_1():
    return 1


@op(out=Out(io_manager_key="s3_io"))
def op_2(a):
    return a + 1


@job(
    resource_defs={
        "fs": fs_io_manager,
        "s3_io": s3_pickle_io_manager,
        "s3": s3_resource,
    }
)
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

## Defining an IO manager

If you have specific requirements for where and how your outputs should be stored and retrieved, you can define your own IO manager. This boils down to implementing two functions: one that stores outputs and one that loads inputs.

To define an IO manager, use the <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" displayText="@io_manager" /> decorator.

```python
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        write_csv("some/path")

    def load_input(self, context):
        return read_csv("some/path")

@io_manager
def my_io_manager(init_context):
    return MyIOManager()
```

The <PyObject module="dagster" object="io_manager" /> decorator behaves nearly identically to the <PyObject module="dagster" object="resource" /> decorator. It yields an <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManagerDefinition" />, which is a subclass of <PyObject module="dagster" object="ResourceDefinition" /> that will produce an <PyObject module="dagster" object="IOManager" />.

The provided `context` argument for `handle_output` is an <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />. The provided `context` argument for `load_input` is an <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputContext" />. The linked API documentation lists all the fields that are available on these objects.

### Accessing the partition key

IO managers interoperate smoothly with [partitions](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions). You can access the partition key for the current run using the `context` for both `load_input` and `handle_output`. If working with [assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), you can also access the asset-specific partition key or partition key range, though most of the time the run partition key will be equal to the asset partition key.

```python literalinclude file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_partitioned_marker endbefore=end_partitioned_marker
from dagster import IOManager


class MyPartitionedIOManager(IOManager):
    def path_for_partition(self, partition_key):
        return f"some/path/{partition_key}.csv"

    # `context.partition_key` is the run-scoped partition key
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        write_csv(self.path_for_partition(context.partition_key), obj)

    # `context.asset_partition_key` is set to the partition key for an asset
    # (if the `IOManager` is handling an asset). This is usually equal to the
    # run `partition_key`.
    def load_input(self, context):
        return read_csv(self.path_for_partition(context.asset_partition_key))
```

## Examples

### A custom IO manager that stores Pandas DataFrames in tables

If your ops produce Pandas DataFrames that populate tables in a data warehouse, you might write something like the following. This IO manager uses the name assigned to the output as the name of the table to write the output to.

```python literalinclude file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_df_marker endbefore=end_df_marker
from dagster import IOManager, io_manager


class DataframeTableIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        # name is the name given to the Out that we're storing for
        table_name = context.name
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        # upstream_output.name is the name given to the Out that we're loading for
        table_name = context.upstream_output.name
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)


@io_manager
def df_table_io_manager(_):
    return DataframeTableIOManager()


@job(resource_defs={"io_manager": df_table_io_manager})
def my_job():
    op_2(op_1())
```

### Providing per-output config to an IO manager

When launching a run, you might want to parameterize how particular outputs are stored.

For example, if your job produces DataFrames to populate tables in a data warehouse, you might want to specify the table that each output goes to at run launch time.

To accomplish this, you can define an `output_config_schema` on the IO manager definition. The IOManager methods can access this config when storing or loading data, via the <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/output_config.py startafter=io_manager_start_marker endbefore=io_manager_end_marker
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.config["table"]
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.config["table"]
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)


@io_manager(output_config_schema={"table": str})
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()
```

Then, when executing a job, you can pass in this per-output config.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/output_config.py startafter=execute_start_marker endbefore=execute_end_marker
def execute_my_job_with_config():
    @job(resource_defs={"io_manager": my_io_manager})
    def my_job():
        op_2(op_1())

    my_job.execute_in_process(
        run_config={
            "ops": {
                "op_1": {"outputs": {"result": {"table": "table1"}}},
                "op_2": {"outputs": {"result": {"table": "table2"}}},
            }
        },
    )
```

### Providing per-output metadata to an IO manager

You might want to provide static metadata that controls how particular outputs are stored. You don't plan to change the metadata at runtime, so it makes more sense to attach it to a definition rather than expose it as a configuration option.

For example, if your job produces DataFrames to populate tables in a data warehouse, you might want to specify that each output always goes to a particular table. To accomplish this, you can define `metadata` on each <PyObject module="dagster" object="Out" />:

```python file=/concepts/io_management/metadata.py startafter=ops_start_marker endbefore=ops_end_marker
@op(out=Out(metadata={"schema": "some_schema", "table": "some_table"}))
def op_1():
    """Return a Pandas DataFrame"""


@op(out=Out(metadata={"schema": "other_schema", "table": "other_table"}))
def op_2(_input_dataframe):
    """Return a Pandas DataFrame"""
```

The IOManager can then access this metadata when storing or retrieving data, via the <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" />.

In this case, the table names are encoded in the job definition. If, instead, you want to be able to set them at run time, the next section describes how.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/metadata.py startafter=io_manager_start_marker endbefore=io_manager_end_marker
class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.metadata["table"]
        schema = context.metadata["schema"]
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, schema=schema, dataframe=obj)

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.metadata["table"]
        schema = context.upstream_output.metadata["schema"]
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name, schema=schema)


@io_manager
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()
```

## Testing an IO manager

The easiest way to test an IO manager is to construct an <PyObject module="dagster" object="OutputContext" /> or <PyObject module="dagster" object="InputContext" /> and pass it to the `handle_output` or `load_input` method of the IO manager. The <PyObject object="build_output_context" /> and <PyObject object="build_input_context" /> functions allow for easy construction of these contexts.

Here's an example for a simple IO manager that stores outputs in an in-memory dictionary that's keyed on the step and name of the output.

```python file=/concepts/io_management/test_io_manager.py
from dagster import IOManager, build_input_context, build_output_context, io_manager


class MyIOManager(IOManager):
    def __init__(self):
        self.storage_dict = {}

    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        self.storage_dict[(context.step_key, context.name)] = obj

    def load_input(self, context):
        return self.storage_dict[
            (context.upstream_output.step_key, context.upstream_output.name)
        ]


@io_manager
def my_io_manager(_):
    return MyIOManager()


def test_my_io_manager_handle_output():
    manager = my_io_manager(None)
    context = build_output_context(name="abc", step_key="123")
    manager.handle_output(context, 5)
    assert manager.storage_dict[("123", "abc")] == 5


def test_my_io_manager_load_input():
    manager = my_io_manager(None)
    manager.storage_dict[("123", "abc")] = 5

    context = build_input_context(
        upstream_output=build_output_context(name="abc", step_key="123")
    )
    assert manager.load_input(context) == 5
```

## Yielding metadata from an IOManager <Experimental />

Sometimes, you may want to record some metadata while handling an output in an IOManager. To do this, you can optionally yield <PyObject object="MetadataEntry"/> objects from within the body of the `handle_output` function. Using this, we can modify one of the [above examples](/concepts/io-management/io-managers#a-custom-io-manager-that-stores-pandas-dataframes-in-tables) to now include some helpful metadata in the log:

```python file=/concepts/io_management/custom_io_manager.py startafter=start_metadata_marker endbefore=end_metadata_marker
class DataframeTableIOManagerWithMetadata(IOManager):
    def handle_output(self, context, obj):
        table_name = context.name
        write_dataframe_to_table(name=table_name, dataframe=obj)

        # attach these to the Handled Output event
        yield MetadataEntry.int(len(obj), label="number of rows")
        yield MetadataEntry.text(table_name, label="table name")

    def load_input(self, context):
        table_name = context.upstream_output.name
        return read_dataframe_from_table(name=table_name)
```

Any entries yielded this way will be attached to the `Handled Output` event for this output.

Additionally, if you have specified that this `handle_output` function will be writing to an asset by defining a `get_output_asset_key` function, these metadata entries will also be attached to the materialization event created for that asset. You can learn more about this functionality in the [Asset Docs](/concepts/assets/asset-materializations).

## See it in action

For more examples of IO Managers, check out the following in our [Hacker News example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/hacker_news):

- [Snowflake IO Manager](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/snowflake_io_manager.py)
- [Parquet IO Manager](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/parquet_io_manager.py)
- [S3 IO Manager with custom bucket](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/blob/master/examples/hacker_news/hacker_news/resources/common_bucket_s3\_pickle_io_manager.py)

Our [Bollinger example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/bollinger) and [New York Times example](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/nyt-feed) also cover writing custom IO Managers.
