docs/content/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless.mdx, before:

---
title: "Serverless deployment in Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Serverless deployment in Dagster Cloud

Dagster Cloud Serverless is a fully managed version of Dagster Cloud, and is the easiest way to get started with Dagster. With Serverless, you can run your Dagster jobs without spinning up any infrastructure.

---

## When to choose Serverless

Serverless works best with workloads that primarily orchestrate other services or perform light computation inside the orchestrator. Most workloads fit into this category, especially those that orchestrate third-party SaaS products like cloud data warehouses and ETL tools.

If any of the following are applicable, you should select [Hybrid deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid):

- You require substantial computational resources. For example, training a large machine learning (ML) model in-process.
- Your dataset is too large to fit in memory. For example, training a large machine learning (ML) model in-process on a terabyte of data.
- You need to distribute computation across many nodes for a single run. Dagster Cloud runs currently execute on a single node with 4 CPUs
- You don't want to add Elementl as a data processor

---

## Limitations

Serverless is currently in early access and is subject to the following limitations:

- Maximum of 100 GB of bandwidth per day
- Maximum of 4500 step-minutes per day
- Runs receive 4 vCPU cores, 16 GB of RAM and 128 GB of ephemeral disk
- Sensors receive 0.25 vCPU cores and 512 MB of RAM
- The Serverless base image is `debian:bullseye-slim`. Custom Dockerfiles are not currently supported.
- All Serverless jobs run in the United States

Enterprise customers may request a quota increase by [contacting Sales](mailto:sales@elementl.com).

---

## Getting started with Serverless

- [With GitHub](#with-github)
- [Without GitHub (GitLab, BitBucket, or local development](#without-github-gitlab-bitbucket-or-local-development)
- [Adding secrets](#adding-secrets)

### With GitHub

If you are a GitHub user, our GitHub integration is the fastest way to get started. It uses a GitHub app and GitHub Actions to set up a repo containing skeleton code and configuration consistent with Dagster Cloud's best practices with a single click.

When you create a new Dagster Cloud organization, you'll be prompted to choose Serverless or Hybrid deployment. Once activated, our GitHub integration will scaffold a new git repo for you with Serverless and Branch Deployments already configured. Pushing to the `main` branch will deploy to your `prod` Serverless deployment. Pull requests will spin up ephemeral [branch deployments](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments) using the Serverless agent.

### Without GitHub (GitLab, BitBucket, or local development)

If you don't want to use our GitHub integration, we offer a powerful CLI that you can use in another CI environment or on your local laptop.

First, [create a new project](https://docs.dagster.io/getting-started/create-new-project#create-a-new-project) with the Dagster open-source CLI.

```shell
pip install dagster
dagster project scaffold \
  --name my-dagster-project \
  --example assets_modern_data_stack
```

Once scaffolded, add `dagster-cloud` as a dependency in your `setup.py` file.

Next, install the [dagster-cloud CLI](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli) and log in to your org. **Note**: The CLI requires a recent version of Python 3 and Docker.

```shell
pip install dagster-cloud
dagster-cloud configure
```

Finally, deploy your project with Dagster Cloud Serverless:

```shell
dagster-cloud serverless deploy \
  --location-name example \
  --package-name my-dagster-project
```

### Adding secrets

Often you'll need to securely access secrets from your jobs. With Dagster Cloud Serverless, secrets are added as environment variables that can be read using APIs like [StringSource](/guides/dagster/transitioning-data-pipelines-from-development-to-production#part-two-deployment).

- If you're using our GitHub integration, all [GitHub Actions Secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) are available as environment variables.
- If you're using the CLI directly, you can pass `KEY=VALUE` pairs using the `--env` flag. Run `dagster-cloud serverless deploy --help` to learn more.

---

## Transitioning to Hybrid

If your organization begins to hit the limitations of Serverless, you should transition to a Hybrid deployment. Hybrid deployments allow you to run an [agent in your own infrastructure](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents) and give you substantially more flexibility and control over the Dagster environment.

To switch to Hybrid, navigate to **Status > Agents** in your Dagster Cloud account. On this page, you can disable the Serverless agent on and view instructions for enabling Hybrid.

---

## Security and data protection

Unlike Hybrid, Serverless Deployments on Dagster Cloud require direct access to your data, secrets and source code.

- Dagster Cloud Serverless does not provide persistent storage. Ephemeral storage is deleted when a run concludes.
- Secrets and source code are built into the image directly. Images are stored in a per-customer container registry with restricted access.
- User code is securely sandboxed using modern container sandboxing techniques.
- All production access is governed by industry-standard best practices which are regularly audited.

Commit message:

Minor fixes for the Serverless Deployment page (#9300)
- Close parenthesis
- Add dagster cloud note

docs/content/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless.mdx, after:

---
title: "Serverless deployment in Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Serverless deployment in Dagster Cloud

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

Dagster Cloud Serverless is a fully managed version of Dagster Cloud, and is the easiest way to get started with Dagster. With Serverless, you can run your Dagster jobs without spinning up any infrastructure.

---

## When to choose Serverless

Serverless works best with workloads that primarily orchestrate other services or perform light computation inside the orchestrator. Most workloads fit into this category, especially those that orchestrate third-party SaaS products like cloud data warehouses and ETL tools.

If any of the following are applicable, you should select [Hybrid deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid):

- You require substantial computational resources. For example, training a large machine learning (ML) model in-process.
- Your dataset is too large to fit in memory. For example, training a large machine learning (ML) model in-process on a terabyte of data.
- You need to distribute computation across many nodes for a single run. Dagster Cloud runs currently execute on a single node with 4 CPUs
- You don't want to add Elementl as a data processor

---

## Limitations

Serverless is currently in early access and is subject to the following limitations:

- Maximum of 100 GB of bandwidth per day
- Maximum of 4500 step-minutes per day
- Runs receive 4 vCPU cores, 16 GB of RAM and 128 GB of ephemeral disk
- Sensors receive 0.25 vCPU cores and 512 MB of RAM
- The Serverless base image is `debian:bullseye-slim`. Custom Dockerfiles are not currently supported.
- All Serverless jobs run in the United States

Enterprise customers may request a quota increase by [contacting Sales](mailto:sales@elementl.com).

---

## Getting started with Serverless

- [With GitHub](#with-github)
- [Without GitHub (GitLab, BitBucket, or local development)](#without-github-gitlab-bitbucket-or-local-development)
- [Adding secrets](#adding-secrets)

### With GitHub

If you are a GitHub user, our GitHub integration is the fastest way to get started. It uses a GitHub app and GitHub Actions to set up a repo containing skeleton code and configuration consistent with Dagster Cloud's best practices with a single click.

When you create a new Dagster Cloud organization, you'll be prompted to choose Serverless or Hybrid deployment. Once activated, our GitHub integration will scaffold a new git repo for you with Serverless and Branch Deployments already configured. Pushing to the `main` branch will deploy to your `prod` Serverless deployment. Pull requests will spin up ephemeral [branch deployments](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments) using the Serverless agent.

### Without GitHub (GitLab, BitBucket, or local development)

If you don't want to use our GitHub integration, we offer a powerful CLI that you can use in another CI environment or on your local laptop.

First, [create a new project](https://docs.dagster.io/getting-started/create-new-project#create-a-new-project) with the Dagster open-source CLI.

```shell
pip install dagster
dagster project scaffold \
  --name my-dagster-project \
  --example assets_modern_data_stack
```

Once scaffolded, add `dagster-cloud` as a dependency in your `setup.py` file.

Next, install the [dagster-cloud CLI](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli) and log in to your org. **Note**: The CLI requires a recent version of Python 3 and Docker.

```shell
pip install dagster-cloud
dagster-cloud configure
```

Finally, deploy your project with Dagster Cloud Serverless:

```shell
dagster-cloud serverless deploy \
  --location-name example \
  --package-name my-dagster-project
```

### Adding secrets

Often you'll need to securely access secrets from your jobs. With Dagster Cloud Serverless, secrets are added as environment variables that can be read using APIs like [StringSource](/guides/dagster/transitioning-data-pipelines-from-development-to-production#part-two-deployment).

- If you're using our GitHub integration, all [GitHub Actions Secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) are available as environment variables.
- If you're using the CLI directly, you can pass `KEY=VALUE` pairs using the `--env` flag. Run `dagster-cloud serverless deploy --help` to learn more.

---

## Transitioning to Hybrid

If your organization begins to hit the limitations of Serverless, you should transition to a Hybrid deployment. Hybrid deployments allow you to run an [agent in your own infrastructure](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents) and give you substantially more flexibility and control over the Dagster environment.

To switch to Hybrid, navigate to **Status > Agents** in your Dagster Cloud account. On this page, you can disable the Serverless agent on and view instructions for enabling Hybrid.

---

## Security and data protection

Unlike Hybrid, Serverless Deployments on Dagster Cloud require direct access to your data, secrets and source code.

- Dagster Cloud Serverless does not provide persistent storage. Ephemeral storage is deleted when a run concludes.
- Secrets and source code are built into the image directly. Images are stored in a per-customer container registry with restricted access.
- User code is securely sandboxed using modern container sandboxing techniques.
- All production access is governed by industry-standard best practices which are regularly audited.
