docs/content/dagster-cloud/account/setting-up-alerts.mdx, before:

---
title: "Setting up alerts in Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Setting up alerts in Dagster Cloud

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

In this guide, we'll walk you through configuring job alerts in Dagster Cloud.

---

## Understanding alert policies

Alert policies define which jobs will trigger an alert, the conditions under which an alert will be sent, and how the alert will be sent.

An alert policy includes a set of configured tags. If an alert policy has no configured tags, all jobs will be eligible for that alert. Otherwise, only jobs that contain all the tags for a given alert policy are eligible for that alert.

Currently, Slack and email notifications are supported.

---

## Managing alert policies in Dagster Cloud

<Note>
  <strong>Organization Admin</strong> or <strong>Admin</strong> permissions are
  required to manage alerts in Dagster Cloud.
</Note>

- [Creating alert policies](#creating-alert-policies)
- [Editing alert policies](#editing-alert-policies)
- [Enabling and disabling alert policies](#enabling-and-disabling-alert-policies)
- [Deleting alert policies](#deleting-alert-policies)

### Creating alert policies

1. Sign in to your Dagster Cloud account.

2. Click the **user menu (your icon) > Cloud Settings**.

3. Click the **Alerts** tab.

4. Click **+ Create alert policy**.

5. In the **Create alert policy** window, fill in the following:

   - **Alert policy name** - Enter a name for the alert policy. For example, `slack_urgent_failure`
   - **Description** - Enter a description for the alert policy
   - **Tags** - Add tag(s) for the alert policy. Jobs with these tags will trigger the alert. For example: `level:critical` or `team:sales`
   - **Events** - Select whether the alert should trigger on job success, failure, or both
   - **Notification service** - Select the service for the alert policy:

     - **Slack** - If you haven't connected Slack, click **Connect** to add the Dagster Cloud Slack app to your workspace. After the installation completes, invite the bot user to the desired channel.

       You can then configure the alert policy to message this channel. **Note**: Only messaging one channel per alert policy is currently supported:

       <Image
       alt="Slack alert configured to alert the sales-notifications channel"
       src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/cloud-slack-alert-creation.png"
       width={1580}
       height={511}
       />

     - **Email** - Email alerts can be sent to one or more recipients. For example:

       <Image
       alt="Email alert configured to alert two recipients"
       src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/cloud-email-alert-creation.png"
       width={1571}
       height={514}
       />

6. When finished, click **Save policy**.

### Editing alert policies

To edit an existing alert policy, click the **Edit** button next to the policy:

<Image
alt="Highlighted Edit button next to an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/edit-alert-policy.png"
width={1349}
height={153}
/>

### Enabling and disabling alert policies

To enable or disable an alert, use the toggle on the left side of the alert policy:

<Image
alt="Enabling and disabling an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/enable-disable-alert-policy.gif"
width={822}
height={158}
/>

### Deleting alert policies

To delete an alert policy, click the **Delete** button next to the policy. When prompted, confirm the deletion.

<Image
alt="Highlighted Delete button next to an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/delete-alert-policy.png"
width={1349}
height={153}
/>

---

## Managing alert policies with the dagster-cloud CLI

With the [`dagster-cloud` CLI](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli), you can:

- [Set an instance deployment's policies](#setting-an-instance-deployments-policies)
- [View an instance deployment's policies](#viewing-an-instance-deployments-policies)
- [Configure a Slack alert policy](#configuring-a-slack-alert-policy)
- [Configure an email alert policy](#configuring-an-email-alert-policy)

### Setting an instance deployment's policies

A list of alert policies can be defined in a single YAML file. After declaring your policies, set them for your instance deployment using the following command:

```bash
dagster-cloud deployment alert-policies sync -a <ALERT_POLICIES_PATH>
```

### Viewing an instance deployment's policies

List the policies currently configured on your instance deployment by running:

```bash
dagster-cloud deployment alert-policies list
```

### Configuring a Slack alert policy

In this example, we'll configure a Slack notification to trigger whenever a run of a job succeeds or fails. This job, named `sales_job`, has a `team` tag of `sales`:

```python
@op
def sales_computation():
    ...


@job(tags={"team": "sales"})
def sales_job():
    sales_computation()
```

In the alert policies YAML file, we'll define a policy that listens for jobs with a `team` tag of `sales` to succeed or fail. When this occurs, a notification will be sent to the `sales-notification` channel in the `hooli` workspace:

```yaml
alert_policies:
  - name: "slack-alert-policy"
    description: "An alert policy to send a Slack notification to sales on job failure or success."
    tags:
      - key: "team"
        value: "sales"
    event_types:
      - "JOB_SUCCESS"
      - "JOB_FAILURE"
    notification_service:
      slack:
        slack_workspace_name: "hooli"
        slack_channel_name: "sales-notifications"
```

### Configuring an email alert policy

In this example, we'll configure an email alert when a job fails. This job, named `important_job`, has a `level` tag of `"critical"`:

```python
def important_computation():
    ...


@job(tags={"level": "critical"})
def important_job():
    important_computation()
```

In the alert policies YAML file, we'll define a policy that listens for jobs with a `level` tag of `critical` to fail. When this occurs, an email notification will be sent to `richard.hendricks@hooli.com` and `nelson.bighetti@hooli.com`:

```yaml
alert_policies:
  - name: "email-alert-policy"
    description: "An alert policy to email company executives during job failure."
    tags:
      - key: "level"
        value: "critical"
    event_types:
      - "JOB_FAILURE"
    notification_service:
      email:
        email_addresses:
          - "richard.hendricks@hooli.com"
          - "nelson.bighetti@hooli.com"
```

---

## Using system tags to configure alert emails

For a job, alert emails can be configured by setting the `dagster-cloud/alert_emails` tag on a job. When a job run fails, a notification will be sent to the alert emails.

In this example, we've defined two alert emails for the `important_job` job: `richard.hendricks@hooli.com` and `nelson.bighetti@hooli.com`. On run failure, these two emails will be sent a notification:

```python
from dagster import job, op
from dagster_cloud import ALERT_EMAILS_TAG


@op
def important_computation():
    ...


@job(
    tags={
        ALERT_EMAILS_TAG: [
            "richard.hendricks@hooli.com",
            "nelson.bighetti@hooli.com",
        ]
    }
)
def important_job():
    important_computation()
```

Commit message:

[docs] - Rename `instance deployment` > `full deployment` (#9293)
* Rename `instance deployment` > `full deployment`

* More changes

docs/content/dagster-cloud/account/setting-up-alerts.mdx, after:

---
title: "Setting up alerts in Dagster Cloud | Dagster Docs"
---

# Setting up alerts in Dagster Cloud

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

In this guide, we'll walk you through configuring job alerts in Dagster Cloud.

---

## Understanding alert policies

Alert policies define which jobs will trigger an alert, the conditions under which an alert will be sent, and how the alert will be sent.

An alert policy includes a set of configured tags. If an alert policy has no configured tags, all jobs will be eligible for that alert. Otherwise, only jobs that contain all the tags for a given alert policy are eligible for that alert.

Alert policies are configured on a per deployment basis. For example, alerts configured in a `prod` deployment are only applicable to jobs in that deployment.

Currently, Slack and email notifications are supported.

---

## Managing alert policies in Dagster Cloud

<Note>
  <strong>Organization Admin</strong> or <strong>Admin</strong> permissions are
  required to manage alerts in Dagster Cloud.
</Note>

- [Creating alert policies](#creating-alert-policies)
- [Editing alert policies](#editing-alert-policies)
- [Enabling and disabling alert policies](#enabling-and-disabling-alert-policies)
- [Deleting alert policies](#deleting-alert-policies)

### Creating alert policies

1. Sign in to your Dagster Cloud account.

2. Click the **user menu (your icon) > Cloud Settings**.

3. Click the **Alerts** tab.

4. Click **+ Create alert policy**.

5. In the **Create alert policy** window, fill in the following:

   - **Alert policy name** - Enter a name for the alert policy. For example, `slack_urgent_failure`
   - **Description** - Enter a description for the alert policy
   - **Tags** - Add tag(s) for the alert policy. Jobs with these tags will trigger the alert. For example: `level:critical` or `team:sales`
   - **Events** - Select whether the alert should trigger on job success, failure, or both
   - **Notification service** - Select the service for the alert policy:

     - **Slack** - If you haven't connected Slack, click **Connect** to add the Dagster Cloud Slack app to your workspace. After the installation completes, invite the bot user to the desired channel.

       You can then configure the alert policy to message this channel. **Note**: Only messaging one channel per alert policy is currently supported:

       <Image
       alt="Slack alert configured to alert the sales-notifications channel"
       src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/cloud-slack-alert-creation.png"
       width={1580}
       height={511}
       />

     - **Email** - Email alerts can be sent to one or more recipients. For example:

       <Image
       alt="Email alert configured to alert two recipients"
       src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/cloud-email-alert-creation.png"
       width={1571}
       height={514}
       />

6. When finished, click **Save policy**.

### Editing alert policies

To edit an existing alert policy, click the **Edit** button next to the policy:

<Image
alt="Highlighted Edit button next to an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/edit-alert-policy.png"
width={1349}
height={153}
/>

### Enabling and disabling alert policies

To enable or disable an alert, use the toggle on the left side of the alert policy:

<Image
alt="Enabling and disabling an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/enable-disable-alert-policy.gif"
width={822}
height={158}
/>

### Deleting alert policies

To delete an alert policy, click the **Delete** button next to the policy. When prompted, confirm the deletion.

<Image
alt="Highlighted Delete button next to an alert policy in Dagster Cloud"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/alerts/delete-alert-policy.png"
width={1349}
height={153}
/>

---

## Managing alert policies with the dagster-cloud CLI

With the [`dagster-cloud` CLI](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/dagster-cloud-cli), you can:

- [Set a full deployment's policies](#setting-a-full-deployments-policies)
- [View a full deployment's policies](#viewing-a-full-deployments-policies)
- [Configure a Slack alert policy](#configuring-a-slack-alert-policy)
- [Configure an email alert policy](#configuring-an-email-alert-policy)

### Setting a full deployment's policies

A list of alert policies can be defined in a single YAML file. After declaring your policies, set them for the deployment using the following command:

```bash
dagster-cloud deployment alert-policies sync -a <ALERT_POLICIES_PATH>
```

### Viewing a full deployment's policies

List the policies currently configured on the deployment by running:

```bash
dagster-cloud deployment alert-policies list
```

### Configuring a Slack alert policy

In this example, we'll configure a Slack notification to trigger whenever a run of a job succeeds or fails. This job, named `sales_job`, has a `team` tag of `sales`:

```python
@op
def sales_computation():
    ...


@job(tags={"team": "sales"})
def sales_job():
    sales_computation()
```

In the alert policies YAML file, we'll define a policy that listens for jobs with a `team` tag of `sales` to succeed or fail. When this occurs, a notification will be sent to the `sales-notification` channel in the `hooli` workspace:

```yaml
alert_policies:
  - name: "slack-alert-policy"
    description: "An alert policy to send a Slack notification to sales on job failure or success."
    tags:
      - key: "team"
        value: "sales"
    event_types:
      - "JOB_SUCCESS"
      - "JOB_FAILURE"
    notification_service:
      slack:
        slack_workspace_name: "hooli"
        slack_channel_name: "sales-notifications"
```

### Configuring an email alert policy

In this example, we'll configure an email alert when a job fails. This job, named `important_job`, has a `level` tag of `"critical"`:

```python
def important_computation():
    ...


@job(tags={"level": "critical"})
def important_job():
    important_computation()
```

In the alert policies YAML file, we'll define a policy that listens for jobs with a `level` tag of `critical` to fail. When this occurs, an email notification will be sent to `richard.hendricks@hooli.com` and `nelson.bighetti@hooli.com`:

```yaml
alert_policies:
  - name: "email-alert-policy"
    description: "An alert policy to email company executives during job failure."
    tags:
      - key: "level"
        value: "critical"
    event_types:
      - "JOB_FAILURE"
    notification_service:
      email:
        email_addresses:
          - "richard.hendricks@hooli.com"
          - "nelson.bighetti@hooli.com"
```

---

## Using system tags to configure alert emails

For a job, alert emails can be configured by setting the `dagster-cloud/alert_emails` tag on a job. When a job run fails, a notification will be sent to the alert emails.

In this example, we've defined two alert emails for the `important_job` job: `richard.hendricks@hooli.com` and `nelson.bighetti@hooli.com`. On run failure, these two emails will be sent a notification:

```python
from dagster import job, op
from dagster_cloud import ALERT_EMAILS_TAG


@op
def important_computation():
    ...


@job(
    tags={
        ALERT_EMAILS_TAG: [
            "richard.hendricks@hooli.com",
            "nelson.bighetti@hooli.com",
        ]
    }
)
def important_job():
    important_computation()
```
