docs/content/integrations/airflow.mdx, before:

---
title: Dagster with Airflow | Dagster
description: The dagster-airflow package allows you to export Dagster jobs as Airflow DAGs, as well as to import Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs.
---

# Using Dagster with Airflow

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/airflow_ingest" />

The [`dagster-airflow`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airflow) package allows you to export Dagster jobs as Airflow DAGs, as well as to import Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs.

Dagster is a fully-featured orchestrator and does not require a system like Airflow to deploy, execute, or schedule jobs. The main scenarios for using Dagster with Airflow are:

- You have an existing Airflow setup that's too difficult to migrate away from, but you want to use Dagster for local development.
- You want to migrate from Airflow to Dagster in an incremental fashion.

## Exporting Dagster jobs to Airflow

You can compile Dagster jobs into DAGs that can be understood by Airflow. Each op in the job becomes an Airflow task. For example, here's a Dagster job:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/hello_cereal.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import job, op


@op
def download_cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@op
def find_sugariest(context, cereals):
    sorted_by_sugar = sorted(cereals, key=lambda cereal: cereal["sugars"])
    context.log.info(f'{sorted_by_sugar[-1]["name"]} is the sugariest cereal')


@job
def hello_cereal_job():
    find_sugariest(download_cereals())
```

To make this job available inside Airflow, you can write an Airflow DAG definition file that invokes <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_airflow_dag" />:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/hello_cereal_dag.py
# pylint: disable=unused-variable

import datetime

from dagster_airflow.factory import make_airflow_dag

DEFAULT_ARGS = {
    "owner": "airflow",
    "depends_on_past": False,
    "start_date": datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 7),
    "email": ["airflow@example.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "email_on_retry": False,
}

dag, tasks = make_airflow_dag(
    module_name="docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal",
    job_name="hello_cereal_job",
    dag_kwargs={"default_args": DEFAULT_ARGS, "max_active_runs": 1},
)
```

If you run this code interactively, you'll see that `dag` and `tasks` are ordinary Airflow objects, just as you'd expect to see when defining an Airflow pipeline manually:

```python
>>> dag
<DAG: hello_cereal_job>
>>> tasks
[<Task(DagsterPythonOperator): hello_cereal>]
```

Like other Airflow DAG definition files, this should go inside `$AIRLFLOW_HOME/dags`. The `docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal` module that's passed as the value for the `module_name` argument must be importable via the sys.path.

After this, the DAG should show up inside Airflow:

<Image
alt="intro_airflow_one.png"
src="/images/deploying/intro_airflow_one.png"
width={1272}
height={868}
/>

### Running Containerized

The approach above runs each op inside an operator that's similar to the Airflow PythonOperator. If you instead want to containerize your Dagster job and run it using an operator that's similar to the Airflow DockerOperator, you can use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_airflow_dag_containerized" />.

As in the uncontainerized case, you'll put a new Python file defining your DAG in the directory in which Airflow looks for DAGs:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/containerized.py
# pylint: disable=unused-variable

import datetime

from dagster_airflow.factory import make_airflow_dag_containerized

DEFAULT_ARGS = {
    "owner": "airflow",
    "depends_on_past": False,
    "start_date": datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 7),
    "email": ["airflow@example.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "email_on_retry": False,
}

dag, steps = make_airflow_dag_containerized(
    module_name="docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal",
    job_name="hello_cereal_job",
    image="dagster-airflow-demo-repository",
    dag_kwargs={"default_args": DEFAULT_ARGS, "max_active_runs": 1},
)
```

The `image` argument is the name of the Docker image. Running in a containerized context requires a persistent intermediate storage layer available to the Dagster containers, such as a network filesystem, S3, or GCS. You can pass `op_kwargs` through to the the **`DagsterDockerOperator`** to use custom TLS settings, the private registry of your choice, etc., just as you would configure the ordinary Airflow **`DockerOperator`**.

If you want your containerized job to be available to Airflow operators running on other machines (for example, in environments where Airflow workers are running remotely) you'll need to push your Docker image to a Docker registry so that remote instances of Docker can pull the image by name, or otherwise ensure that the image is available on remote nodes.

## Ingesting DAGs from Airflow

This example demonstrates how to use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag" /> to compile an Airflow DAG into a Dagster job that can be executed (and explored) the same way as a Dagster-native job.

There are two jobs in the repo:

- `airflow_simple_dag` demonstrates the use of Airflow templates.
- `airflow_complex_dag` shows the translation of a more complex dependency structure.

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/repo.py startafter=start_repo_marker_0 endbefore=end_repo_marker_0
from airflow_ingest.airflow_complex_dag import complex_dag
from airflow_ingest.airflow_simple_dag import simple_dag
from dagster_airflow.dagster_job_factory import make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag

from dagster import repository

airflow_simple_dag = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(simple_dag)
airflow_complex_dag = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(complex_dag)


@repository
def airflow_ingest_example():
    return [airflow_complex_dag, airflow_simple_dag]
```

Note that the "execution_date" for the Airflow DAG is specified through the job tags. To specify tags, call to:

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/repo.py startafter=start_repo_marker_1 endbefore=end_repo_marker_1
airflow_simple_dag_with_execution_date = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(
    dag=simple_dag, tags={"airflow_execution_date": "2021-11-01 00:00:00"}
)
```

Commit message:

[docs] - Add Airflow Operator to Op Docs (#8875)

docs/content/integrations/airflow.mdx, after:

---
title: Dagster with Airflow | Dagster
description: The dagster-airflow package allows you to export Dagster jobs as Airflow DAGs, as well as to import Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs.
---

# Using Dagster with Airflow

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/airflow_ingest" />

The [`dagster-airflow`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-airflow) package allows you to export Dagster jobs as Airflow DAGs, as well as to import Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs.

Dagster is a fully-featured orchestrator and does not require a system like Airflow to deploy, execute, or schedule jobs. The main scenarios for using Dagster with Airflow are:

- You have an existing Airflow setup that's too difficult to migrate away from, but you want to use Dagster for local development.
- You want to migrate from Airflow to Dagster in an incremental fashion.

## Exporting Dagster jobs to Airflow

You can compile Dagster jobs into DAGs that can be understood by Airflow. Each op in the job becomes an Airflow task. For example, here's a Dagster job:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/hello_cereal.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import job, op


@op
def download_cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@op
def find_sugariest(context, cereals):
    sorted_by_sugar = sorted(cereals, key=lambda cereal: cereal["sugars"])
    context.log.info(f'{sorted_by_sugar[-1]["name"]} is the sugariest cereal')


@job
def hello_cereal_job():
    find_sugariest(download_cereals())
```

To make this job available inside Airflow, you can write an Airflow DAG definition file that invokes <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_airflow_dag" />:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/hello_cereal_dag.py
# pylint: disable=unused-variable

import datetime

from dagster_airflow.factory import make_airflow_dag

DEFAULT_ARGS = {
    "owner": "airflow",
    "depends_on_past": False,
    "start_date": datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 7),
    "email": ["airflow@example.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "email_on_retry": False,
}

dag, tasks = make_airflow_dag(
    module_name="docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal",
    job_name="hello_cereal_job",
    dag_kwargs={"default_args": DEFAULT_ARGS, "max_active_runs": 1},
)
```

If you run this code interactively, you'll see that `dag` and `tasks` are ordinary Airflow objects, just as you'd expect to see when defining an Airflow pipeline manually:

```python
>>> dag
<DAG: hello_cereal_job>
>>> tasks
[<Task(DagsterPythonOperator): hello_cereal>]
```

Like other Airflow DAG definition files, this should go inside `$AIRLFLOW_HOME/dags`. The `docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal` module that's passed as the value for the `module_name` argument must be importable via the sys.path.

After this, the DAG should show up inside Airflow:

<Image
alt="intro_airflow_one.png"
src="/images/deploying/intro_airflow_one.png"
width={1272}
height={868}
/>

### Running Containerized

The approach above runs each op inside an operator that's similar to the Airflow PythonOperator. If you instead want to containerize your Dagster job and run it using an operator that's similar to the Airflow DockerOperator, you can use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_airflow_dag_containerized" />.

As in the uncontainerized case, you'll put a new Python file defining your DAG in the directory in which Airflow looks for DAGs:

```python file=/integrations/airflow/containerized.py
# pylint: disable=unused-variable

import datetime

from dagster_airflow.factory import make_airflow_dag_containerized

DEFAULT_ARGS = {
    "owner": "airflow",
    "depends_on_past": False,
    "start_date": datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 7),
    "email": ["airflow@example.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "email_on_retry": False,
}

dag, steps = make_airflow_dag_containerized(
    module_name="docs_snippets.integrations.airflow.hello_cereal",
    job_name="hello_cereal_job",
    image="dagster-airflow-demo-repository",
    dag_kwargs={"default_args": DEFAULT_ARGS, "max_active_runs": 1},
)
```

The `image` argument is the name of the Docker image. Running in a containerized context requires a persistent intermediate storage layer available to the Dagster containers, such as a network filesystem, S3, or GCS. You can pass `op_kwargs` through to the the **`DagsterDockerOperator`** to use custom TLS settings, the private registry of your choice, etc., just as you would configure the ordinary Airflow **`DockerOperator`**.

If you want your containerized job to be available to Airflow operators running on other machines (for example, in environments where Airflow workers are running remotely) you'll need to push your Docker image to a Docker registry so that remote instances of Docker can pull the image by name, or otherwise ensure that the image is available on remote nodes.

## Ingesting Airflow operators

Dagster can convert Airflow operators to Dagster ops for any Airflow operators that require no instance-wide configuration via `airflow.cfg`. Using <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="airflow_operator_to_op"/>, you can convert instantiated Airflow operators to be executed within a Dagster op. Optionally, you can pass in a list of Airflow connection objects utilized by the operator:

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/airflow_operator_to_op.py startafter=start_operator_to_op_1 endbefore=end_operator_to_op_1
http_task = SimpleHttpOperator(task_id="http_task", method="GET", endpoint="images")
connections = [Connection(conn_id="http_default", host="https://google.com")]
dagster_op = airflow_operator_to_op(http_task, connections=connections)


@job
def my_http_job():
    dagster_op()
```

To specify extra parameters to an instantiated Airflow connection, pass a JSON string into the `set_extra()` function of the Airflow connection object:

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/airflow_operator_to_op.py startafter=start_operator_to_op_2 endbefore=end_operator_to_op_2
s3_conn = Connection(conn_id="s3_conn", conn_type="s3")
s3_conn.set_extra(
    json.dumps(
        {
            "aws_access_key_id": "my_access_key",
            "aws_secret_access_key": "my_secret_key",
        }
    )
)
```

## Ingesting DAGs from Airflow

This example demonstrates how to use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag" /> to compile an Airflow DAG into a Dagster job that can be executed (and explored) the same way as a Dagster-native job.

There are two jobs in the repo:

- `airflow_simple_dag` demonstrates the use of Airflow templates.
- `airflow_complex_dag` shows the translation of a more complex dependency structure.

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/repo.py startafter=start_repo_marker_0 endbefore=end_repo_marker_0
from airflow_ingest.airflow_complex_dag import complex_dag
from airflow_ingest.airflow_simple_dag import simple_dag
from dagster_airflow.dagster_job_factory import make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag

from dagster import repository

airflow_simple_dag = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(simple_dag)
airflow_complex_dag = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(complex_dag)


@repository
def airflow_ingest_example():
    return [airflow_complex_dag, airflow_simple_dag]
```

Note that the "execution_date" for the Airflow DAG is specified through the job tags. To specify tags, call to:

```python file=../../airflow_ingest/repo.py startafter=start_repo_marker_1 endbefore=end_repo_marker_1
airflow_simple_dag_with_execution_date = make_dagster_job_from_airflow_dag(
    dag=simple_dag, tags={"airflow_execution_date": "2021-11-01 00:00:00"}
)
```
