docs/content/integrations/dbt.mdx, before:

---
title: "dbt + Dagster"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# dbt + Dagster

<Note>
  Using dbt Cloud? Check out the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt-cloud">dbt Cloud with Dagster guide</a>!
</Note>

Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside other technologies, so you can combine dbt with Spark, Python, etc. in a single workflow. Dagster's [software-defined asset](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) abstractions make it simple to define data assets that depend on specific dbt models, or to define the computation required to compute the sources that your dbt models depend on. You could, for example:

- Run your dbt models after ingesting data into your data warehouse
- Selectively materialize dbt models and their dependencies

Dagster has built-in support for loading dbt models, seeds, and snapshots as software-defined assets, enabling you to:

- Visualize and orchestrate a graph of dbt assets, and execute them with a single dbt invocation
- View detailed historical metadata and logs for each asset
- Define Python computations that depend directly on tables updated using dbt
- Track data lineage through dbt and your other tools

---

## Using dbt with Dagster

<DbtModelAssetExplanation />

---

## dbt and Dagster software-defined assets tutorial

In this tutorial, we'll walk you through integrating dbt with Dagster using dbt's example [jaffle shop project](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop), the [dagster-dbt library](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt), and a [DuckDB database](https://duckdb.org/).

By the end of the tutorial, you'll have a working dbt and Dagster integration and a handful of materialized Dagster assets, including a plotly chart powered by data computed from your dbt models.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Overview and prerequisites"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part one: Set up a dbt project"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part two: Load dbt models as Dagster assets"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part three: Create and materialize upstream Dagster assets"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part four: Create and materialize a downstream asset"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## References

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="dagster-dbt integration reference"
    href="/integrations/dbt/reference"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="dagster-dbt API reference"
    href="/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

Commit message:

Add link to reference in main dbt page

docs/content/integrations/dbt.mdx, after:

---
title: "dbt + Dagster"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# dbt + Dagster

<Note>
  Using dbt Cloud? Check out the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt-cloud">dbt Cloud with Dagster guide</a>!
</Note>

Dagster orchestrates dbt alongside other technologies, so you can combine dbt with Spark, Python, etc. in a single workflow. Dagster's [software-defined asset](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) abstractions make it simple to define data assets that depend on specific dbt models, or to define the computation required to compute the sources that your dbt models depend on. You could, for example:

- Run your dbt models after ingesting data into your data warehouse
- Selectively materialize dbt models and their dependencies

Dagster has built-in support for loading dbt models, seeds, and snapshots as software-defined assets, enabling you to:

- Visualize and orchestrate a graph of dbt assets, and execute them with a single dbt invocation
- View detailed historical metadata and logs for each asset
- Define Python computations that depend directly on tables updated using dbt
- Track data lineage through dbt and your other tools

---

## Using dbt with Dagster

<DbtModelAssetExplanation />

To learn how to load dbt models into Dagster as assets, check out the tutorial below or the quick version in the [dagster-dbt reference](/integrations/dbt/reference#loading-dbt-models-from-a-dbt-project).

---

## dbt and Dagster software-defined assets tutorial

In this tutorial, we'll walk you through integrating dbt with Dagster using dbt's example [jaffle shop project](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop), the [dagster-dbt library](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt), and a [DuckDB database](https://duckdb.org/).

By the end of the tutorial, you'll have a working dbt and Dagster integration and a handful of materialized Dagster assets, including a plotly chart powered by data computed from your dbt models.

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Overview and prerequisites"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part one: Set up a dbt project"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part two: Load dbt models as Dagster assets"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part three: Create and materialize upstream Dagster assets"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="Part four: Create and materialize a downstream asset"
    href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>

---

## References

<ArticleList>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="dagster-dbt integration reference"
    href="/integrations/dbt/reference"
  ></ArticleListItem>
  <ArticleListItem
    title="dagster-dbt API reference"
    href="/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt"
  ></ArticleListItem>
</ArticleList>
