docs/sphinx/sections/api/apidocs/internals.rst, before:

Internals
=========

.. currentmodule:: dagster

Please note that internal APIs are likely to be in much greater flux pre-1.0 than user-facing APIs,
particularly if not exported in the top level ``dagster`` module.

If you find yourself consulting these docs because you are writing custom components and plug-ins,
please get in touch with the core team `on our Slack <https://join.slack.com/t/dagster/shared_invite/enQtNjEyNjkzNTA2OTkzLTI0MzdlNjU0ODVhZjQyOTMyMGM1ZDUwZDQ1YjJmYjI3YzExZGViMDI1ZDlkNTY5OThmYWVlOWM1MWVjN2I3NjU>`_.
We're curious what you're up to, happy to help, excited for new community contributions, and eager
to make the system as easy to work with as possible -- including for teams who are looking to
customize it.

Executors
---------
.. autodecorator:: executor

.. autoclass:: ExecutorDefinition
    :members: configured

.. autoclass:: InitExecutorContext
    :members:

.. autoclass:: Executor
    :members:

----

File Manager
--------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.file_manager

.. autoclass:: FileManager
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autodata:: local_file_manager
   :annotation: ResourceDefinition

----


Instance
--------

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autoclass:: DagsterInstance
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.instance

.. autoclass:: InstanceRef
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._serdes

.. autoclass:: ConfigurableClass
   :members:

.. autoclass:: ConfigurableClassData
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.root

.. autoclass:: LocalArtifactStorage
   :members:

----

Storage
-------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.base_storage

.. autoclass:: DagsterStorage

----

Run storage
-----------

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autoclass:: DagsterRun

.. autoclass:: DagsterRunStatus
   :members:
   :undoc-members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.runs

.. autoclass:: RunStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlRunStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteRunStorage


See also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresRunStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLRunStorage`.

----

Event log storage
-----------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.event_log

.. autoclass:: EventLogEntry

.. autoclass:: EventLogRecord

.. autoclass:: EventRecordsFilter

.. autoclass:: RunShardedEventsCursor

.. autoclass:: EventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlEventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteEventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: ConsolidatedSqliteEventLogStorage

See also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresEventLogStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLEventLogStorage`.

----

Compute log manager
-------------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.compute_log_manager

.. autoclass:: ComputeLogManager

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.local_compute_log_manager

.. autoclass:: LocalComputeLogManager

See also: :py:class:`dagster_aws.S3ComputeLogManager`.

----

Run launcher
------------
.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.launcher

.. autoclass:: RunLauncher

.. autoclass:: DefaultRunLauncher

----

Run coordinator
---------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.run_coordinator

.. autoclass:: DefaultRunCoordinator

.. autoconfigurable:: QueuedRunCoordinator
  :annotation: RunCoordinator

----

Scheduling
----------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.scheduler

.. autoclass:: Scheduler

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.schedules

.. autoclass:: ScheduleStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlScheduleStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteScheduleStorage

see also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresScheduleStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLScheduleStorage`.

----

Exception handling
------------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.errors

.. autofunction:: user_code_error_boundary

Commit message:

[1.0] Mark a bunch of stuff experimental (#9146)
* Mark a bunch of stuff experimental

* Address comments

* Fix description of filehandle APIs in integrations

* fix docs for memoization

docs/sphinx/sections/api/apidocs/internals.rst, after:

Internals
=========

.. currentmodule:: dagster

Note that APIs imported from Dagster submodules are not considered stable, and are potentially subject to change in the future.

If you find yourself consulting these docs because you are writing custom components and plug-ins,
please get in touch with the core team `on our Slack <https://join.slack.com/t/dagster/shared_invite/enQtNjEyNjkzNTA2OTkzLTI0MzdlNjU0ODVhZjQyOTMyMGM1ZDUwZDQ1YjJmYjI3YzExZGViMDI1ZDlkNTY5OThmYWVlOWM1MWVjN2I3NjU>`_.
We're curious what you're up to, happy to help, excited for new community contributions, and eager
to make the system as easy to work with as possible -- including for teams who are looking to
customize it.

Executors (Experimental)
------------------------

APIs for constructing custom executors. This is considered advanced experimental usage. Please note that using Dagster-provided executors is considered stable, common usage.

.. autodecorator:: executor

.. autoclass:: ExecutorDefinition
    :members: configured

.. autoclass:: InitExecutorContext
    :members:

.. autoclass:: Executor
    :members:

----

File Manager (Experimental)
---------------------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.file_manager

.. autoclass:: FileManager
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autodata:: local_file_manager
   :annotation: ResourceDefinition

.. autoclass:: FileHandle
   :members:

.. autoclass:: LocalFileHandle

----


Instance
--------

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autoclass:: DagsterInstance
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.instance

.. autoclass:: InstanceRef
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._serdes

.. autoclass:: ConfigurableClass
   :members:

.. autoclass:: ConfigurableClassData
   :members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.root

.. autoclass:: LocalArtifactStorage
   :members:

----

Storage
-------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.base_storage

.. autoclass:: DagsterStorage

----

Run storage
-----------

.. currentmodule:: dagster

.. autoclass:: DagsterRun

.. autoclass:: DagsterRunStatus
   :members:
   :undoc-members:

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.runs

.. autoclass:: RunStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlRunStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteRunStorage


See also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresRunStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLRunStorage`.

----

Event log storage
-----------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.event_log

.. autoclass:: EventLogEntry

.. autoclass:: EventLogRecord

.. autoclass:: EventRecordsFilter

.. autoclass:: RunShardedEventsCursor

.. autoclass:: EventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlEventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteEventLogStorage

.. autoclass:: ConsolidatedSqliteEventLogStorage

See also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresEventLogStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLEventLogStorage`.

----

Compute log manager
-------------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.compute_log_manager

.. autoclass:: ComputeLogManager

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.local_compute_log_manager

.. autoclass:: LocalComputeLogManager

See also: :py:class:`dagster_aws.S3ComputeLogManager`.

----

Run launcher
------------
.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.launcher

.. autoclass:: RunLauncher

.. autoclass:: DefaultRunLauncher

----

Run coordinator
---------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.run_coordinator

.. autoclass:: DefaultRunCoordinator

.. autoconfigurable:: QueuedRunCoordinator
  :annotation: RunCoordinator

----

Scheduling
----------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.scheduler

.. autoclass:: Scheduler

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.storage.schedules

.. autoclass:: ScheduleStorage

.. autoclass:: SqlScheduleStorage

.. autoclass:: SqliteScheduleStorage

see also: :py:class:`dagster_postgres.PostgresScheduleStorage` and :py:class:`dagster_mysql.MySQLScheduleStorage`.

----

Exception handling
------------------

.. currentmodule:: dagster._core.errors

.. autofunction:: user_code_error_boundary
