docs/content/tutorial/assets/asset-graph.mdx, before:

# Building Graphs of Assets

Software-defined assets can depend on other software-defined assets. An asset dependency means that the contents of an "upstream" asset are used to compute the contents of the "downstream" asset.

Why split up code into multiple assets? There are a few reasons:

- Dagster can materialize assets without re-materializing all the upstream assets. This means that, if we hit a failure, we can re-materialize just the assets that didn't materialize successfully, which often allows us to avoid re-executing expensive computation.
- When two assets don't depend on each other, Dagster can materialize them simultaneously.

---

## Let's Get Serial

Having defined a dataset of cereals, we'll define a downstream asset that contains only the cereals that are manufactured by Nabisco.

```python file=/guides/dagster/asset_tutorial/serial_asset_graph.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import asset


@asset
def cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@asset
def nabisco_cereals(cereals):
    """Cereals manufactured by Nabisco"""
    return [row for row in cereals if row["mfr"] == "N"]
```

We've defined our new asset, `nabisco_cereals`, with an argument, `cereals`.

Dagster offers a few ways of specifying asset dependencies, but the easiest is to include an upstream asset name as an argument to the decorated function. When it's time to materialize the contents of the `nabisco_cereals` asset, the contents of `cereals` asset are provided as the value for the `cereals` argument to its compute function.

So:

- `cereals` doesn't depend on any other asset
- `nabisco_cereals` depends on `cereals`

Let's visualize these assets in Dagit:

```bash
dagit -f serial_asset_graph.py
```

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>. From the **Assets** page, click an asset and then the **Lineage** tab:

<Image
alt="Serial asset graph"
src="/images/guides/asset-tutorial/serial_asset_graph.png"
width={1331}
height={874}
/>

<br />

To materialize the assets, click **Materialize all**.

---

## A More Complex Asset Graph

Assets don't need to be wired together serially. An asset can depend on and be depended on by any number of other assets.

Here, we're interested in which of Nabisco's cereals has the most protein. We define four assets:

- The `cereals` and `nabisco_cereals` assets, same as above
- A `cereal_protein_fractions` asset, which records each cereal's protein content as a fraction of its total mass
- A `highest_protein_nabisco_cereal`, which is the name of the Nabisco cereal that has the highest protein content

```python file=/guides/dagster/asset_tutorial/complex_asset_graph.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import asset


@asset
def cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@asset
def nabisco_cereals(cereals):
    """Cereals manufactured by Nabisco"""
    return [row for row in cereals if row["mfr"] == "N"]


@asset
def cereal_protein_fractions(cereals):
    """
    For each cereal, records its protein content as a fraction of its total mass.
    """
    result = {}
    for cereal in cereals:
        total_grams = float(cereal["weight"]) * 28.35
        result[cereal["name"]] = float(cereal["protein"]) / total_grams

    return result


@asset
def highest_protein_nabisco_cereal(nabisco_cereals, cereal_protein_fractions):
    """
    The name of the nabisco cereal that has the highest protein content.
    """
    sorted_by_protein = sorted(
        nabisco_cereals, key=lambda cereal: cereal_protein_fractions[cereal["name"]]
    )
    return sorted_by_protein[-1]["name"]
```

Let's visualize these assets in Dagit:

```bash
dagit -f complex_asset_graph.py
```

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>. From the **Assets** page, click an asset and then the **Lineage** tab:

<Image
alt="Complex asset graph"
src="/images/guides/asset-tutorial/complex_asset_graph.png"
width={1331}
height={874}
/>

If you click the "Materialize All" button, you'll see that `cereals` executes first, followed by `nabisco_cereals` and `cereal_protein_fractions` executing in parallel, since they don't depend on each other's outputs. Finally, `highest_protein_nabisco_cereal` executes last, only after `nabisco_cereals` and `cereal_protein_fractions` have both executed.

Commit message:

add a section to the asset tutorial about assets without args and return values (#9361)
tutorial nothing

docs/content/tutorial/assets/asset-graph.mdx, after:

---
title: Building Graphs of Assets | Dagster
description: Software-defined assets can depend on other software-defined assets
---

# Building Graphs of Assets

Software-defined assets can depend on other software-defined assets. An asset dependency means that the contents of an "upstream" asset are used to compute the contents of the "downstream" asset.

Why split up code into multiple assets? There are a few reasons:

- Dagster can materialize assets without re-materializing all the upstream assets. This means that, if we hit a failure, we can re-materialize just the assets that didn't materialize successfully, which often allows us to avoid re-executing expensive computation.
- When two assets don't depend on each other, Dagster can materialize them simultaneously.

---

## Let's Get Serial

Having defined a dataset of cereals, we'll define a downstream asset that contains only the cereals that are manufactured by Nabisco.

```python file=/guides/dagster/asset_tutorial/serial_asset_graph.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import asset


@asset
def cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@asset
def nabisco_cereals(cereals):
    """Cereals manufactured by Nabisco"""
    return [row for row in cereals if row["mfr"] == "N"]
```

We've defined our new asset, `nabisco_cereals`, with an argument, `cereals`.

Dagster offers a few ways of specifying asset dependencies, but the easiest is to include an upstream asset name as an argument to the decorated function. When it's time to materialize the contents of the `nabisco_cereals` asset, the contents of `cereals` asset are provided as the value for the `cereals` argument to its compute function.

So:

- `cereals` doesn't depend on any other asset
- `nabisco_cereals` depends on `cereals`

Let's visualize these assets in Dagit:

```bash
dagit -f serial_asset_graph.py
```

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>:

<Image
alt="Serial asset graph"
src="/images/guides/asset-tutorial/serial_asset_graph.png"
width={1331}
height={874}
/>

<br />

To materialize the assets, click **Materialize all**.

---

## A More Complex Asset Graph

Assets don't need to be wired together serially. An asset can depend on and be depended on by any number of other assets.

Here, we're interested in which of Nabisco's cereals has the most protein. We define four assets:

- The `cereals` and `nabisco_cereals` assets, same as above
- A `cereal_protein_fractions` asset, which records each cereal's protein content as a fraction of its total mass
- A `highest_protein_nabisco_cereal`, which is the name of the Nabisco cereal that has the highest protein content

```python file=/guides/dagster/asset_tutorial/complex_asset_graph.py
import csv

import requests

from dagster import asset


@asset
def cereals():
    response = requests.get("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/cereal.csv")
    lines = response.text.split("\n")
    return [row for row in csv.DictReader(lines)]


@asset
def nabisco_cereals(cereals):
    """Cereals manufactured by Nabisco"""
    return [row for row in cereals if row["mfr"] == "N"]


@asset
def cereal_protein_fractions(cereals):
    """
    For each cereal, records its protein content as a fraction of its total mass.
    """
    result = {}
    for cereal in cereals:
        total_grams = float(cereal["weight"]) * 28.35
        result[cereal["name"]] = float(cereal["protein"]) / total_grams

    return result


@asset
def highest_protein_nabisco_cereal(nabisco_cereals, cereal_protein_fractions):
    """
    The name of the nabisco cereal that has the highest protein content.
    """
    sorted_by_protein = sorted(
        nabisco_cereals, key=lambda cereal: cereal_protein_fractions[cereal["name"]]
    )
    return sorted_by_protein[-1]["name"]
```

Let's visualize these assets in Dagit:

```bash
dagit -f complex_asset_graph.py
```

Navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>:

<Image
alt="Complex asset graph"
src="/images/guides/asset-tutorial/complex_asset_graph.png"
width={1331}
height={874}
/>

If you click the "Materialize All" button, you'll see that `cereals` executes first, followed by `nabisco_cereals` and `cereal_protein_fractions` executing in parallel, since they don't depend on each other's outputs. Finally, `highest_protein_nabisco_cereal` executes last, only after `nabisco_cereals` and `cereal_protein_fractions` have both executed.
