## Example: using the built-in `ShellCommmandBlueprint` to build pipelines of shell commands in YAML

Imagine that people in your organization work heavily with shell scripts that process data, and you want them to write simple YAML files that compose these shell scripts into data pipelines that can be viewed and executed in Dagster.

The built-in `ShellCommandBlueprint` can help with this. A `ShellCommandBlueprint` is a blueprint for one or more assets whose shared materialization function is a shell command. It accepts two fields:

- `command`: The shell command, given as a string.
- `assets`: Specs for the assets that are generated by the shell command. Each spec includes fields like `key` and `deps`.

Using it involves two kinds of files.

- The YAML files themselves, which contain blobs that conform to the `ShellCommandBlueprint` spec. E.g. [builtin_blueprints/pipelines/process_customers.yaml](builtin_blueprints/pipelines/process_customers.yaml).
- The Python harness - a few lines of Python code that parse the YAML files to generate definitions to load into Dagster. These are located in the [builtin_blueprints/definitions.py](builtin_blueprints/definitions.py) file.

### Try it out

Make sure the blueprints library is installed, using the instructions [here](../../README.md#install).

Install the example:

```python
pip install -e .
```

Launch Dagster to see the definitions loaded from the blueprints:

```bash

dagster dev
```

Print out the JSON schema for the blueprints:

```bash
dagster-blueprints print-schema
```

If you use [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for editing code, configure VS Code to associate the YAML files in the [custom_blueprints/curl_assets/](custom_blueprints/curl_assets/) with the blueprint schema that's used to interpret them. This will provide typeahead and type checking when editing these files.

```bash
dagster-blueprints configure-vscode
```
