docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 2: Load dbt models as Dagster assets"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part two: Load dbt models as Dagster assets

<Note>
  This is part two of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

At this point, you should have a [fully-configured dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one) that's ready to work with Dagster.

In this step, you'll finally begin integrating dbt with Dagster! To do this, you'll:

- [Load the dbt models into Dagster as assets](#step-1-load-the-dbt-models-as-assets)
- [Add a Dagster repository and supply a dbt resource](#step-2-add-a-dagster-repository-and-supply-a-dbt-resource)
- [View the assets in Dagit](#step-3-view-the-assets-in-dagit)

---

## Step 1: Load the dbt models as assets

In this step, you'll load the dbt models into Dagster as assets. This step requires the [`dagster-dbt`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt) library.

Open the `__init__.py` file, located in `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets`, and add the following code:

```python
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

from dagster import file_relative_path


DBT_PROJECT_PATH = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop")
DBT_PROFILES = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop/config")

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    project_dir=DBT_PROJECT_PATH, profiles_dir=DBT_PROFILES, key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"]
)
```

Let's discuss what this example is doing, specifically the <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" /> function. This function loads dbt models into Dagster as assets, creating one Dagster asset for each model.

When invoked, this function:

1. Compiles your dbt project,
2. Parses the metadata provided by dbt, and
3. Generates a set of software-defined assets reflecting the models in the project. These assets share the same underlying [op](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops), which will invoke dbt to run the models represented by the loaded assets.

<Note>
  <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" /> is one
  of two ways you can load dbt models into Dagster, which we recommend for small
  dbt projects. For larger projects, we recommend using
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/reference#loading-models-using-load_assets_from_dbt_manifest">
    <code>load_assets_from_dbt_manifest</code> to load models from a dbt{" "}
    <code>manifest.json</code> file
  </a>.
</Note>

Let's take a look at the arguments we've supplied:

- `project_dir`, which is the path to the dbt project
- `profiles_dir`, which is the path to the dbt project's connection profiles
- `key_prefix`, which is a prefix to apply to all models in the dbt project

---

## Step 2: Add a Dagster repository and supply a dbt resource

Next, you'll create a Dagster [repository](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories) to supply resources to the dbt assets from the previous step.

Assets loaded from dbt require a dbt resource, which is responsible for firing off dbt CLI commands. Using the <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="dbt_cli_resource" /> resource, we can supply a dbt resource to the dbt project.

Open the `repository.py` file, located in `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster`, and add the following code:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from tutorial_dbt_dagster import assets
from tutorial_dbt_dagster.assets import DBT_PROFILES, DBT_PROJECT_PATH

from dagster import load_assets_from_package_module, repository, with_resources


@repository
def tutorial_dbt_dagster():
    return with_resources(
        load_assets_from_package_module(assets),
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
        },
    )
```

---

## Step 3: View the assets in Dagit

In this step you'll start Dagit, Dagster's web interface.

1. To start Dagit, run the following in `/tutorial_template`:

   ```shell
   dagit
   ```

   Which will result in output similar to:

   ```shell
   Serving dagit on http://127.0.0.1:3000 in process 70635
   ```

2. In your browser, navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>. The page will display the assets:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, containing dbt models loaded as Dagster assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two-dbt-asset-graph.png"
   width={1090}
   height={894}
   />

---

## What's next?

At this point, you've loaded your dbt models into Dagster as assets, supplied them with a dbt resource, and viewed them in Dagit's asset graph. The next step is to [add upstream Dagster assets and kick off a run that materializes them](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three).

Commit message:

Explain repository in part two

docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 2: Load dbt models as Dagster assets"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part two: Load dbt models as Dagster assets

<Note>
  This is part two of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

At this point, you should have a [fully-configured dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one) that's ready to work with Dagster.

In this step, you'll finally begin integrating dbt with Dagster! To do this, you'll:

- [Load the dbt models into Dagster as assets](#step-1-load-the-dbt-models-as-assets)
- [Add a Dagster repository and supply a dbt resource](#step-2-add-a-dagster-repository-and-supply-a-dbt-resource)
- [View the assets in Dagit](#step-3-view-the-assets-in-dagit)

---

## Step 1: Load the dbt models as assets

In this step, you'll load the dbt models into Dagster as assets. This step requires the [`dagster-dbt`](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt) library.

Open the `__init__.py` file, located in `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets`, and add the following code:

```python
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

from dagster import file_relative_path


DBT_PROJECT_PATH = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop")
DBT_PROFILES = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop/config")

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    project_dir=DBT_PROJECT_PATH, profiles_dir=DBT_PROFILES, key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"]
)
```

Let's discuss what this example is doing, specifically the <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" /> function. This function loads dbt models into Dagster as assets, creating one Dagster asset for each model.

When invoked, this function:

1. Compiles your dbt project,
2. Parses the metadata provided by dbt, and
3. Generates a set of software-defined assets reflecting the models in the project. These assets share the same underlying [op](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops), which will invoke dbt to run the models represented by the loaded assets.

<Note>
  <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" /> is one
  of two ways you can load dbt models into Dagster, which we recommend for small
  dbt projects. For larger projects, we recommend using
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/reference#loading-models-using-load_assets_from_dbt_manifest">
    <code>load_assets_from_dbt_manifest</code> to load models from a dbt{" "}
    <code>manifest.json</code> file
  </a>.
</Note>

Let's take a look at the arguments we've supplied:

- `project_dir`, which is the path to the dbt project
- `profiles_dir`, which is the path to the dbt project's connection profiles
- `key_prefix`, which is a prefix to apply to all models in the dbt project

---

## Step 2: Add a Dagster repository and supply a dbt resource

Next, you'll create a Dagster [repository](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories) to supply resources to the dbt assets from the previous step.

Assets loaded from dbt require a dbt resource, which is responsible for firing off dbt CLI commands. Using the <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="dbt_cli_resource" /> resource, we can supply a dbt resource to the dbt project.

Open the `repository.py` file, located in `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster`, and add the following code:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from tutorial_dbt_dagster import assets
from tutorial_dbt_dagster.assets import DBT_PROFILES, DBT_PROJECT_PATH

from dagster import load_assets_from_package_module, repository, with_resources


@repository
def tutorial_dbt_dagster():
    return with_resources(
        load_assets_from_package_module(assets),
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
        },
    )
```

Let's take a look at what's happening here:

- Using <PyObject object="with_resources"/>, we've provided resources to the assets in the repository. In this example, that's the <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="dbt_cli_resource" /> resource.
- Using <PyObject object="load_assets_from_package_module" />, we've imported all assets in the `assets` module into the repository. This approach allows any new assets we create to be automatically added to the repository instead of needing to manually add them one by one.

---

## Step 3: View the assets in Dagit

In this step you'll start Dagit, Dagster's web interface.

1. To start Dagit, run the following in `/tutorial_template`:

   ```shell
   dagit
   ```

   Which will result in output similar to:

   ```shell
   Serving dagit on http://127.0.0.1:3000 in process 70635
   ```

2. In your browser, navigate to <http://127.0.0.1:3000>. The page will display the assets:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, containing dbt models loaded as Dagster assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two-dbt-asset-graph.png"
   width={1090}
   height={894}
   />

---

## What's next?

At this point, you've loaded your dbt models into Dagster as assets, supplied them with a dbt resource, and viewed them in Dagit's asset graph. The next step is to [add upstream Dagster assets and kick off a run that materializes them](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three).
