docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 4: Add a downstream asset"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part four: Add a downstream asset

<Note>
  This is part four of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

By this point, you've [set up a dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one), [loaded dbt models into Dagster as assets](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two), and [created and materialized upstream assets using Dagit](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three).

In this step, you'll:

- [Create a downstream asset that computes a chart using plotly](#step-1-create-the-order_count_chart-asset)
- [Update the Dagster repository to include the new asset](#step-2-update-the-dagster-repository)
- [Materialize the order_count_chart asset](#step-3-materialize-the-order_count_chart-asset)

---

## Step 1: Create the order_count_chart asset

You've added upstream assets to your data pipeline, but nothing downstream - until now. Here's a quick refresher of what our graph of assets currently looks like:

<Image
alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing materialized assets"
src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-materialized.png"
width={1091}
height={896}
/>

In this step, you'll create a Dagster asset - called `order_count_chart` - that's downstream of the `customers` asset produced by the `stg_orders` and `stg_customers` dbt models. The `order_count_chart` asset computes a plotly chart using the data from its upstream asset dependency.

1. In `assets.py`, replace the imports section with the following:

   ```python
   import pandas as pd
   import plotly.express as px
   from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

   from dagster import AssetIn, MetadataValue, asset
   from dagster._utils import file_relative_path
   ```

2. After the `customers_raw` and `orders_raw` assets, add the following:

   ```python
   @asset(
       ins={"customers": AssetIn(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"])},
       group_name="staging",
   )
   def order_count_chart(context, customers: pd.DataFrame):
       fig = px.histogram(customers, x="number_of_orders")
       fig.update_layout(bargap=0.2)
       save_chart_path = file_relative_path(__file__, "order_count_chart.html")
       fig.write_html(save_chart_path, auto_open=True)

       context.add_output_metadata({"plot_url": MetadataValue.url("file://" + save_chart_path)})
   ```

Let's review what's happening here:

- `customers` is supplied as an argument to `ins`, defining it as an upstream asset dependency of the `order_count_chart` asset

- We've also used <PyObject object="AssetIn" /> to explicitly define an upstream dependency. Just like in [part three of this tutorial](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three#step-1-create-upstream-dagster-assets), we've defined these as `jaffle_shop` and `staging`, respectively.

- Finally, the chart is saved as `order_count_chart.html` in `/dbt_dagster_tutorial/dagster_code` and automatically opened in the browser.

---

## Step 2: Update the Dagster repository

To materialize the new `order_count_chart` asset, you'll need to update the Dagster repository to include it.

Replace the contents of `repository.py` with the following:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from dagster_code.assets import (
    DBT_PROFILES,
    DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
    customers_raw,
    dbt_assets,
    order_count_chart,
    orders_raw,
)
from dagster_code.duckdb_resource import duckdb_io_manager

from dagster import repository, with_resources


@repository
def jaffle_shop_repository():
    return with_resources(
        [
            customers_raw,
            orders_raw,
            *dbt_assets,
            order_count_chart,
        ],
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
            "io_manager": duckdb_io_manager.configured(
                {"duckdb_path": os.path.join(DBT_PROJECT_PATH, "tutorial.duckdb")}
            ),
        },
    )
```

---

## Step 3: Materialize the order_count_chart asset

In this step, you'll materialize the `order_count_chart_asset`. When successfully materialized, a new tab containing the plotly chart will automatically open in your browser.

1. Back in Dagit on the asset graph, click **Reload definitions**. This will ensure that Dagit picks up the changes you made in steps one and two.

   At this point, the `order_count_chart` asset should display below `customers` as a downstream dependency:

   <Image
   alt="order_count_chart asset displaying in Dagit's asset graph"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four-new-asset.png"
   width={998}
   height={808}
   />

2. Click the `order_count_chart` asset to select it.

3. Click **Materialize selected** to kick off a run that materializes the asset.

4. Click the **Materialize all** button to kick off a run that materializes the assets.

That's it! When the run successfully completes, the following chart will automatically open in your browser:

<Image
alt="plotly chart asset displayed in Chrome"
src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four-order-count-chart.png"
width={995}
height={918}
/>

---

## What's next?

That's the end of this tutorial - congratulations! By now, you should have a working dbt and Dagster integration and a handful of materialized Dagster assets.

What's next? From here, you can:

- Learn more about [software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets)
- Learn how to [build jobs that materialize dbt assets](/integrations/dbt/reference#scheduling-dbt-jobs)
- Get a [deeper understanding of Dagster's dbt integration](/integrations/dbt/reference)
- Check out the [`dagster-dbt` API docs](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt)

Commit message:

Update instructions and snippets to match tutorial_template

docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 4: Add a downstream asset"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part four: Add a downstream asset

<Note>
  This is part four of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

By this point, you've [set up a dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one), [loaded dbt models into Dagster as assets](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two), and [created and materialized upstream assets using Dagit](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three).

In this step, you'll:

- [Create a downstream asset that computes a chart using plotly](#step-1-create-the-order_count_chart-asset)
- [Update the Dagster repository to include the new asset](#step-2-update-the-dagster-repository)
- [Materialize the order_count_chart asset](#step-3-materialize-the-order_count_chart-asset)

---

## Step 1: Create the order_count_chart asset

You've added upstream assets to your data pipeline, but nothing downstream - until now. Here's a quick refresher of what our graph of assets currently looks like:

<Image
alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing materialized assets"
src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-materialized.png"
width={1091}
height={896}
/>

In this step, you'll create a Dagster asset - called `order_count_chart` - that's downstream of the `customers` asset produced by the `stg_orders` and `stg_customers` dbt models. The `order_count_chart` asset computes a plotly chart using the data from its upstream asset dependency.

1. In `/assets/__init__.py`, replace the imports section with the following:

   ```python
   import pandas as pd
   import plotly.express as px
   from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

   from dagster import AssetIn, MetadataValue, asset, file_relative_path
   ```

2. After the `customers_raw` and `orders_raw` assets, add the following:

   ```python
   @asset(
       ins={"customers": AssetIn(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"])},
       group_name="staging",
   )
   def order_count_chart(context, customers: pd.DataFrame):
       fig = px.histogram(customers, x="number_of_orders")
       fig.update_layout(bargap=0.2)
       save_chart_path = file_relative_path(__file__, "order_count_chart.html")
       fig.write_html(save_chart_path, auto_open=True)

       context.add_output_metadata({"plot_url": MetadataValue.url("file://" + save_chart_path)})
   ```

Let's review what's happening here:

- `customers` is supplied as an argument to `ins`, defining it as an upstream asset dependency of the `order_count_chart` asset

- We've also used <PyObject object="AssetIn" /> to explicitly define an upstream dependency. Just like in [part three of this tutorial](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three#step-1-create-upstream-dagster-assets), we've defined these as `jaffle_shop` and `staging`, respectively.

- Finally, the chart is saved as `order_count_chart.html` in `/tutorial_template/dbt_dagster_sda_tutorial` and automatically opened in the browser.

---

## Step 2: Update the Dagster repository

To materialize the new `order_count_chart` asset, you'll need to update the Dagster repository to include it.

Replace the contents of `repository.py` with the following:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from dbt_dagster_sda_tutorial.assets import (
    DBT_PROFILES,
    DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
    customers_raw,
    dbt_assets,
    order_count_chart,
    orders_raw,
)
from dbt_dagster_sda_tutorial.duckdb_resource import duckdb_io_manager

from dagster import repository, with_resources


@repository
def jaffle_shop_repository():
    return with_resources(
        [
            customers_raw,
            orders_raw,
            *dbt_assets,
            order_count_chart,
        ],
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
            "io_manager": duckdb_io_manager.configured(
                {"duckdb_path": os.path.join(DBT_PROJECT_PATH, "tutorial.duckdb")}
            ),
        },
    )
```

---

## Step 3: Materialize the order_count_chart asset

In this step, you'll materialize the `order_count_chart_asset`. When successfully materialized, a new tab containing the plotly chart will automatically open in your browser.

1. Back in Dagit on the asset graph, click **Reload definitions**. This will ensure that Dagit picks up the changes you made in steps one and two.

   At this point, the `order_count_chart` asset should display below `customers` as a downstream dependency:

   <Image
   alt="order_count_chart asset displaying in Dagit's asset graph"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four-new-asset.png"
   width={998}
   height={808}
   />

2. Click the `order_count_chart` asset to select it.

3. Click **Materialize selected** to kick off a run that materializes the asset.

4. Click the **Materialize all** button to kick off a run that materializes the assets.

That's it! When the run successfully completes, the following chart will automatically open in your browser:

<Image
alt="plotly chart asset displayed in Chrome"
src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four-order-count-chart.png"
width={995}
height={918}
/>

---

## What's next?

That's the end of this tutorial - congratulations! By now, you should have a working dbt and Dagster integration and a handful of materialized Dagster assets.

What's next? From here, you can:

- Learn more about [software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets)
- Learn how to [build jobs that materialize dbt assets](/integrations/dbt/reference#scheduling-dbt-jobs)
- Get a [deeper understanding of Dagster's dbt integration](/integrations/dbt/reference)
- Check out the [`dagster-dbt` API docs](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt)
