docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 3: Create and materialize upstream assets"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part three: Create and materialize upstream assets

<Note>
  This is part three of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

By this point, you've [set up a dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one) and [loaded dbt models into Dagster as assets](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two).

In this step, you'll:

- [Create upstream Dagster assets](#step-1-create-upstream-dagster-assets)
- [Add an I/O manager to the Dagster repository](#step-2-add-an-io-manager-to-the-dagster-repository)
- [Materialize the assets using Dagit](#step-3-materialize-the-assets-using-dagit)

---

## Step 1: Create upstream Dagster assets

To fetch the data the dbt models require, we'll write two Dagster assets: one for `customers` and one for `orders`.

In `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets/__init__.py`:

1. Replace the import section at the top of the file with the following:

   ```python
   import pandas as pd
   from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

   from dagster import asset, file_relative_path
   ```

   In this step, we've added the `pandas` library and Dagster's `asset`.

2. Add the following code **before** <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" />:

   ```python
   @asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
   def customers_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
       data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/customers.csv")
       return data

   @asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
   def orders_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
       data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/orders.csv")
       return data
   ```

Let's take a closer look at the arguments we've provided:

- `key_prefix` - When the assets are materialized, Dagster will store them in DuckDB in the schema defined by the last value in `key_prefix`. In this case, that's `jaffle_shop`. The tables will have the same names as the assets that produced them, which are `customers_raw` and `orders_raw`.

  Because these tables will become the source data for the `stg_customers.sql` and `stg_orders.sql` models in the dbt project, the names of the assets must match the table names specified in `/tutorial_template/jaffle_shop/models/sources.yml`, which you configured in [part one of this tutorial](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one#step-3-configure-dbt-model-data-sources).

- `group_name` - When Dagster loads the dbt models as assets, the assets will be placed in an asset group based on the name of the folder (`staging`) containing the models. Because we want the assets we add to be included in the same group, we defined this as `staging`.

At this point, the `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets__init__.py` file should look like this:

```python
import pandas as pd
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

from dagster import asset, file_relative_path


@asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
def customers_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
   data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/customers.csv")
   return data


@asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
def orders_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
   data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/orders.csv")
   return data


DBT_PROJECT_PATH = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop")
DBT_PROFILES = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop/config")

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    project_dir=DBT_PROJECT_PATH, profiles_dir=DBT_PROFILES, key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"]
)
```

---

## Step 2: Add an I/O manager to the Dagster repository

To materialize the assets, we need to tell Dagster how to handle the assets' inputs and outputs. We can do this using an [I/O manager](/concepts/io-management/io-managers).

In this step, we'll update the Dagster repository to supply the `duckdb_io_manager` to the assets in the repository. This resource contains an I/O manager that, when assets are materialized, allows:

- Upstream assets (`customers_raw`, `orders_raw`) to load data into DuckDB
- Downstream assets to read data from DuckDB. We'll add the downstream asset in the next section.

In `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/repository.py`, replace its contents with the following:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from tutorial_dbt_dagster import assets
from tutorial_dbt_dagster.assets import DBT_PROFILES, DBT_PROJECT_PATH

from dagster_duckdb import build_duckdb_io_manager
from dagster_duckdb_pandas import DuckDBPandasTypeHandler

from dagster import load_assets_from_package_module, repository, with_resources


@repository
def tutorial_dbt_dagster():
    duckdb_io_manager = build_duckdb_io_manager([DuckDBPandasTypeHandler()])

    return with_resources(
        load_assets_from_package_module(assets),
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
            "io_manager": duckdb_io_manager.configured(
                {"duckdb_path": os.path.join(DBT_PROJECT_PATH, "tutorial.duckdb")}
            ),
        },
    )

```

---

## Step 3: Materialize the assets using Dagit

Now that you've created assets, resources, and a repository, it's time to materialize the assets! Materializing an asset runs the op it contains and saves the results to persistent storage. In this tutorial, we're saving asset outputs to DuckDB.

1. In Dagit, click the **Reload definitions** button. This ensures that Dagit picks up the changes you made in the previous steps.

   At this point, the `customers_raw` and `orders_raw` assets should display above `stg_customers` and `stg_orders` as upstream dependencies:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing dbt models and unmaterialized assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-unmaterialized.png"
   width={1089}
   height={897}
   />

2. Click the **Materialize all** button near the top right corner of the page, which will launch a run to materialize the assets. When finished, the **Materialized** and **Latest Run** attributes in the asset will be populated:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing materialized assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-materialized.png"
   width={1091}
   height={896}
   />

After the run completes, you can:

- Click the **asset** to open a sidebar containing info about the asset, including its last materialization stats and a link to view the [**Asset details** page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#asset-details)
- Click the ID of the **Latest Run** - in the above image, that's `651489a2` - in an asset to view the [**Run details**](/concepts/dagit/dagit#viewing-a-single-run) page. This page contains detailed info about the run, including timing information, errors, and logs.

---

## What's next?

At this point, you've built and materialized two upstream Dagster assets, providing source data to your dbt models. In the last section of the tutorial, we'll show you how to add a [downstream asset to the pipeline](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four).

Commit message:

Add explanation of duckdb_io_manager

docs/content/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using Dagster with dbt, part 3: Create and materialize upstream assets"
description: Dagster can orchestrate dbt alongside other technologies.
---

# Using dbt with Dagster, part three: Create and materialize upstream assets

<Note>
  This is part three of the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster">
    Using dbt with Dagster software-defined assets
  </a>{" "}
  tutorial.
</Note>

By this point, you've [set up a dbt project](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one) and [loaded dbt models into Dagster as assets](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-two).

In this step, you'll:

- [Create upstream Dagster assets](#step-1-create-upstream-dagster-assets)
- [Add an I/O manager to the Dagster repository](#step-2-add-an-io-manager-to-the-dagster-repository)
- [Materialize the assets using Dagit](#step-3-materialize-the-assets-using-dagit)

---

## Step 1: Create upstream Dagster assets

To fetch the data the dbt models require, we'll write two Dagster assets: one for `customers` and one for `orders`.

In `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets/__init__.py`:

1. Replace the import section at the top of the file with the following:

   ```python
   import pandas as pd
   from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

   from dagster import asset, file_relative_path
   ```

   In this step, we've added the `pandas` library and Dagster's `asset`.

2. Add the following code **before** <PyObject module="dagster_dbt" object="load_assets_from_dbt_project" />:

   ```python
   @asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
   def customers_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
       data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/customers.csv")
       return data

   @asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
   def orders_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
       data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/orders.csv")
       return data
   ```

Let's take a closer look at the arguments we've provided:

- `key_prefix` - When the assets are materialized, Dagster will store them in DuckDB in the schema defined by the last value in `key_prefix`. In this case, that's `jaffle_shop`. The tables will have the same names as the assets that produced them, which are `customers_raw` and `orders_raw`.

  Because these tables will become the source data for the `stg_customers.sql` and `stg_orders.sql` models in the dbt project, the names of the assets must match the table names specified in `/tutorial_template/jaffle_shop/models/sources.yml`, which you configured in [part one of this tutorial](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-one#step-3-configure-dbt-model-data-sources).

- `group_name` - When Dagster loads the dbt models as assets, the assets will be placed in an asset group based on the name of the folder (`staging`) containing the models. Because we want the assets we add to be included in the same group, we defined this as `staging`.

At this point, the `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/assets__init__.py` file should look like this:

```python
import pandas as pd
from dagster_dbt import load_assets_from_dbt_project

from dagster import asset, file_relative_path


@asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
def customers_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
   data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/customers.csv")
   return data


@asset(key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"], group_name="staging")
def orders_raw() -> pd.DataFrame:
   data = pd.read_csv("https://docs.dagster.io/assets/orders.csv")
   return data


DBT_PROJECT_PATH = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop")
DBT_PROFILES = file_relative_path(__file__, "../../jaffle_shop/config")

dbt_assets = load_assets_from_dbt_project(
    project_dir=DBT_PROJECT_PATH, profiles_dir=DBT_PROFILES, key_prefix=["jaffle_shop"]
)
```

---

## Step 2: Add an I/O manager to the Dagster repository

To materialize the assets, we need to tell Dagster how to handle the assets' inputs and outputs. We can do this using an [I/O manager](/concepts/io-management/io-managers).

In this step, we'll update the Dagster repository to supply the `duckdb_io_manager` to the assets in the repository. This resource contains an I/O manager that, when assets are materialized, allows:

- Upstream assets (`customers_raw`, `orders_raw`) to load data into DuckDB. In this example, the `duckdb_io_manager` uses <PyObject module="dagster_duckdb_pandas" object="DuckDBPandasTypeHandler" /> to store the pandas DataFrames used in our assets as CSVs and load them into DuckDB.
- Downstream assets to read data from DuckDB. We'll add the downstream asset in the next section.

In `/tutorial_template/tutorial_dbt_dagster/repository.py`, replace its contents with the following:

```python
import os

from dagster_dbt import dbt_cli_resource
from tutorial_dbt_dagster import assets
from tutorial_dbt_dagster.assets import DBT_PROFILES, DBT_PROJECT_PATH

from dagster_duckdb import build_duckdb_io_manager
from dagster_duckdb_pandas import DuckDBPandasTypeHandler

from dagster import load_assets_from_package_module, repository, with_resources


@repository
def tutorial_dbt_dagster():
    duckdb_io_manager = build_duckdb_io_manager([DuckDBPandasTypeHandler()])

    return with_resources(
        load_assets_from_package_module(assets),
        {
            "dbt": dbt_cli_resource.configured(
                {
                    "project_dir": DBT_PROJECT_PATH,
                    "profiles_dir": DBT_PROFILES,
                },
            ),
            "io_manager": duckdb_io_manager.configured(
                {"duckdb_path": os.path.join(DBT_PROJECT_PATH, "tutorial.duckdb")}
            ),
        },
    )

```

---

## Step 3: Materialize the assets using Dagit

Now that you've created assets, resources, and a repository, it's time to materialize the assets! Materializing an asset runs the op it contains and saves the results to persistent storage. In this tutorial, we're saving asset outputs to DuckDB.

1. In Dagit, click the **Reload definitions** button. This ensures that Dagit picks up the changes you made in the previous steps.

   At this point, the `customers_raw` and `orders_raw` assets should display above `stg_customers` and `stg_orders` as upstream dependencies:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing dbt models and unmaterialized assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-unmaterialized.png"
   width={1089}
   height={897}
   />

2. Click the **Materialize all** button near the top right corner of the page, which will launch a run to materialize the assets. When finished, the **Materialized** and **Latest Run** attributes in the asset will be populated:

   <Image
   alt="Asset graph in Dagit, showing materialized assets"
   src="/images/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-three-asset-graph-materialized.png"
   width={1091}
   height={896}
   />

After the run completes, you can:

- Click the **asset** to open a sidebar containing info about the asset, including its last materialization stats and a link to view the [**Asset details** page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#asset-details)
- Click the ID of the **Latest Run** - in the above image, that's `651489a2` - in an asset to view the [**Run details**](/concepts/dagit/dagit#viewing-a-single-run) page. This page contains detailed info about the run, including timing information, errors, and logs.

---

## What's next?

At this point, you've built and materialized two upstream Dagster assets, providing source data to your dbt models. In the last section of the tutorial, we'll show you how to add a [downstream asset to the pipeline](/integrations/dbt/using-dbt-with-dagster/part-four).
