docs/content/guides/dagster/enriching-with-software-defined-assets.mdx, before:

# Software-Defined Assets for Existing Dagster Users

This guide is aimed at helping existing Dagster users understand when, why, and how to use software-defined assets. It may also be useful to new Dagster users as well, who want a better understanding of the relationships between software-defined assets and other Dagster concepts like ops and graphs.

If you want to understand when, why, and how to use software-defined assets in Dagster, this guide is for you. We'll also demonstrate what some common Dagster jobs look like before and after using software-defined assets.

Before we jump in, here's a quick refresher:

- An **asset** is a persistent object in storage, such as a table, machine learning (ML) model, or file.
- An [**op**](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops) is the core unit of computation in Dagster. For example, an op might accept tabular data as input and produce transformed tabular data as output.
- A [**graph**](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs) is a directed acyclic graph of ops or other graphs, which execute in order and pass data to each other.
- A [**software-defined asset**](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) is a declaration of an asset that should exist and a description of how to compute it: the op or graph that needs to run and the upstream assets that it should run on.

**Software-defined assets aren't a replacement for Dagster's core computational concepts**. Think of them as a top layer that links ops, graphs, and jobs to the long-lived objects they interact with.

---

## Why use software-defined assets?

Using software-defined assets means building Dagster jobs in a way that declares _ahead of time_ the assets they produce and consume. This is different than using the `AssetMaterialization` API, which only informs Dagster at runtime about the assets a job interacted with.

Preemptively declaring assets offers distinct advantages, including:

### Lineage

As software-defined assets know what other assets they depend on, an asset's lineage can be [viewed easily in Dagit](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#viewing-assets-in-dagit).

Assets help track and define cross-job dependencies. For example, when viewing a job that materializes assets, you can navigate to the jobs that produce the assets that it depends on. Additionally, when an upstream asset has been updated more recently than a downstream asset, Dagster will indicate that the downstream asset might be out of date.

### Direct operation

Using software-defined assets enables you to directly operate them in Dagit. On the [Assets page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#assets), you can:

- View the materialization history of an asset
- Check when the next materialization will occur
- Launch a run to materialize the asset

Drilling down to the [Asset Details page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#asset-details) for an individual asset shows the sensors or schedules for any jobs targeting the asset. It also includes a **(Re)Materialize** button, allowing you to launch a run that rematerializes the asset, including its ancestors or descendants.

### Improved code ergonomics

Without software-defined assets, you're often forced to choose between:

- **Easy dependency tracking** by containing everything in a single mega-job, which requires maintaining a huge, unwieldy object.

- **Manageable maintenance** by splitting up your pipeline into smaller jobs, which makes tracking cross-job dependencies difficult.

This isn't the case with software-defined assets:

- **Assets track their dependencies,** so you don't need to define mega-jobs just to keep track. This allows you to avoid interruptions in dependency graphs and eliminate the need for root input managers.

- **Using software-defined assets usually means writing less code**. Specifying the inputs to a software-defined asset defines the assets it depends on. This means you don't need to use `@graph` and `@job` to wire dependencies between ops.

  This approach reduces the number of times an asset's name appears in your codebase by half, making improving your codebase's scalability. Refer to the [IO manager-based example](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables-without-an-io-manager) below to see this in action.

---

## When is it appropriate to use software-defined assets?

You should use software-defined assets when:

- You’re using Dagster to produce or maintain assets, AND
- You know what those assets will be before you launch any runs. Note that using software-defined assets in one job doesn’t mean they must be used in all your jobs.

If your use case doesn't meet these criteria, you can still use graphs and ops.

Still not sure? Check out these examples to see what's a good fit and what isn't:

| Use case                                                                                                 | Good fit? | Explanation                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Every day, drop and recreate the `users` table and the `user_recommender_model` model that depends on it | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Every hour, add a partition to the `events` table                                                        | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Clicking a button refreshes the `recommender` model                                                      | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Every day, send emails to a set of users                                                                 | No        | No assets are being updated                                      |
| Every day, read a file of user IDs and change the value of a particular attribute for each user          | No        | The set of assets to update is not known before running the job. |
| Every day, scan my warehouse for tables that haven't been used in months and delete them                 | No        | The set of assets to update is not known before running the job. |

---

## How do software-defined assets work with other Dagster concepts?

Not sure how software-defined assets fit into your current Dagster usage? In this section, we'll touch on how software-defined assets work with some of Dagster's core concepts:

- [Ops and graphs](#ops-and-graphs)
- [Jobs](#jobs)
- [Dagster types](#dagster-types)
- [Repositories](#repositories)
- [IO managers](#io-managers)

### Ops and graphs

| Without software-defined assets                                           | With software-defined assets                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| An [op]() is the basic unit of computation                                | Every software-defined asset includes a graph or an op                                         |
| A [graph]() is a composite unit of computation that connects multiple ops | Every software-defined asset includes a graph or an op                                         |
| Ops can have multiple outputs                                             | Multiple assets can be produced by a single op when defined using the `@multi_asset` decorator |
| Ops can use [config](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops#op-configuration)      | Assets can use [config]()                                                                      |
| Ops can be tested by directly invoking them                               | Assets can be tested by directly invoking them                                                 |
| Ops can require resources                                                 | Software-defined assets can require resources                                                  |

### Jobs

| Without software-defined assets         | With software-defined assets                                |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| A job targets a graph of ops            | An asset job targets a selection of software-defined assets |
| Jobs can be partitioned                 | Assets can be partitioned                                   |
| Jobs can be put on schedules or sensors | Asset jobs can be put on schedules or sensors               |

### Dagster types

| Without software-defined assets                                                                                                           | With software-defined assets                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Op outputs and inputs can have Dagster types                                                                                              | Software-defined assets can have Dagster types                                                                                                                               |
| The `Nothing` Dagster type enables declaring that Dagster doesn't need to store or load the object corresponding to an op output or input | The `non_argument_deps` argument when defining an asset enables specifying dependencies without relying on Dagster to store or load objects corresponding to that dependency |

### Repositories

| Without software-defined assets                       | With software-defined assets    |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Repositories can contain jobs, schedules, and sensors | Repositories can contain assets |

### IO managers

| Without software-defined assets                                         | With software-defined assets                             |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| IO managers can control how op inputs and outputs are loaded and stored | IO managers can control how assets are loaded and stored |

---

## Upgrading jobs to use software-defined assets

Let's say you've written jobs that you want to enrich using software-defined assets. Assuming assets are known and being updated, what would upgrading look like?

Generally, every op output in a job that corresponds to a long-lived object in storage should have a software-defined asset. The following examples demonstrate some realistic Dagster jobs, both with and without software-defined assets:

- [A job that materializes two interdependent tables](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables)
- [A job that materializes two interdependent tables without an IO manager](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables-without-an-io-manager)
- [A job where only some ops produce assets](#not-all-ops-produce-assets)

<Note>
  This isn't an exhaustive list! We're adding the ability to define jobs that
  materialize software-defined assets and then run arbitrary ops. Interested?
  We'd love to hear from you in{" "}
  <a href="https://dagster-slackin.herokuapp.com/" target="new">
    Slack
  </a>{" "}
  or a{" "}
  <a href="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/discussions" target="new">
    GitHub discussion
  </a>
  .
</Note>

### Materialize two interdependent tables

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example is a vanilla, op-based job that follows the idiomatic practice of delegating all IO to IO managers and root input managers.

The goal of each op in the job is to produce an asset. However, because the job doesn't use the software-defined asset APIs, Dagster is unaware of this:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_io_manager.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import In, Out, job, op, repository

from .mylib import s3_io_manager, snowflake_io_manager, train_recommender_model


@op(
    ins={"raw_users": In(root_manager_key="warehouse")},
    out={"users": Out(io_manager_key="warehouse")},
)
def build_users(raw_users: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    users_df = raw_users.dropna()
    return users_df


@op(out={"users_recommender_model": Out(io_manager_key="object_store")})
def build_user_recommender_model(users: DataFrame):
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users)
    return users_recommender_model


@job(resource_defs={"warehouse": snowflake_io_manager, "object_store": s3_io_manager})
def users_recommender_job():
    build_user_recommender_model(build_users())


@repository
def repo():
    return [users_recommender_job]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's what an equivalent job looks like using software-defined assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_io_manager.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import AssetSelection, SourceAsset, asset, repository, with_resources

from .mylib import s3_io_manager, snowflake_io_manager, train_recommender_model

raw_users = SourceAsset(key="raw_users", io_manager_key="warehouse")


@asset(io_manager_key="warehouse")
def users(raw_users: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    users_df = raw_users.dropna()
    return users_df


@asset(io_manager_key="object_store")
def user_recommender_model(users: DataFrame):
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users)
    return users_recommender_model


@repository
def repo():
    return [
        with_resources(
            [users, user_recommender_model],
            resource_defs={
                "warehouse": snowflake_io_manager,
                "object_store": s3_io_manager,
            },
        ),
        AssetSelection.all().to_job("users_recommender_job"),
    ]
```

### Materialize two interdependent tables without an IO manager

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets-1)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets-1)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example does the same things as the [previous example](#a-job-that-materializes-two-interdependent-tables), with one difference. This job performs IO inside of the ops instead of delegating it to IO managers and root input managers:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_nothing.py
from pandas import read_sql

from dagster import In, Nothing, job, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, pickle_to_s3, train_recommender_model


@op
def build_users():
    raw_users_df = read_sql(f"select * from raw_users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_df = raw_users_df.dropna()
    users_df.to_sql(name="users", con=create_db_connection())


@op(ins={"users": In(Nothing)})
def build_user_recommender_model():
    users_df = read_sql(f"select * from users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users_df)
    pickle_to_s3(users_recommender_model, key="users_recommender_model")


@job
def users_recommender_job():
    build_user_recommender_model(build_users())


@repository
def repo():
    return [users_recommender_job]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's an example of an equivalent job that uses software-defined assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_nothing.py
from mylib import create_db_connection, pickle_to_s3, train_recommender_model
from pandas import read_sql

from dagster import AssetSelection, asset, assets_from_current_module, repository


@asset(non_argument_deps={"raw_users"})
def users():
    raw_users_df = read_sql(f"select * from raw_users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_df = raw_users_df.dropna()
    users_df.to_sql(name="users", con=create_db_connection())


@asset(non_argument_deps={"users"})
def user_recommender_model():
    users_df = read_sql(f"select * from users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users_df)
    pickle_to_s3(users_recommender_model, key="users_recommender_model")


@repository
def repo():
    assets = assets_from_current_module()
    return [assets, AssetSelection.all().to_job("users_recommender_job")]
```

### Not all ops produce assets

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets-2)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets-2)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example demonstrates a job where some of the ops (`extract_products` and `get_categories`) don't produce assets of their own. Instead, they produce transient data that downstream ops will use to produce assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_graph.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import job, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, fetch_products


@op
def extract_products() -> DataFrame:
    return fetch_products()


@op
def get_categories(products: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    return DataFrame({"category": products["category"].unique()})


@op
def write_products_table(products: DataFrame) -> None:
    products.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@op
def write_categories_table(categories: DataFrame) -> None:
    categories.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@job
def ingest_products_and_categories():
    products = extract_products()
    product_categories = get_categories(products)
    return write_products_table(products), write_categories_table(product_categories)


@repository
def repo():
    return [ingest_products_and_categories]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's an equivalent job using software-defined assets. Note: Because some ops don't correspond to assets, this job uses `@op` and `@graph` APIs and `from_graph` to wrap a graph in a software-defined asset:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_graph.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import AssetSelection, AssetsDefinition, GraphOut, graph, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, fetch_products


@op
def extract_products() -> DataFrame:
    return fetch_products()


@op
def get_categories(products: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    return DataFrame({"category": products["category"].unique()})


@op
def write_products_table(products: DataFrame) -> None:
    products.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@op
def write_categories_table(categories: DataFrame) -> None:
    categories.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@graph(out={"products": GraphOut(), "categories": GraphOut()})
def ingest_graph():
    products = extract_products()
    product_categories = get_categories(products)
    return write_products_table(products), write_categories_table(product_categories)


two_tables = AssetsDefinition.from_graph(ingest_graph)


@repository
def repo():
    return [two_tables, AssetSelection.all().to_job("products_and_categories")]
```

Commit message:

Update title and page description

docs/content/guides/dagster/enriching-with-software-defined-assets.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrading To Software-Defined Assets | Dagster
description: Understand when, why, and how to use software-defined assets (SDAs) in Dagster, as well as how SDAs work with other core Dagster concepts.
---

# Upgrading To Software-Defined Assets

If you want to understand when, why, and how to use software-defined assets in Dagster, this guide is for you. We'll also demonstrate what some common Dagster jobs look like before and after using software-defined assets.

Before we jump in, here's a quick refresher:

- An **asset** is a persistent object in storage, such as a table, machine learning (ML) model, or file.
- An [**op**](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops) is the core unit of computation in Dagster. For example, an op might accept tabular data as input and produce transformed tabular data as output.
- A [**graph**](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs) is a directed acyclic graph of ops or other graphs, which execute in order and pass data to each other.
- A [**software-defined asset**](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) is a declaration of an asset that should exist and a description of how to compute it: the op or graph that needs to run and the upstream assets that it should run on.

**Software-defined assets aren't a replacement for Dagster's core computational concepts**. Think of them as a top layer that links ops, graphs, and jobs to the long-lived objects they interact with.

---

## Why use software-defined assets?

Using software-defined assets means building Dagster jobs in a way that declares _ahead of time_ the assets they produce and consume. This is different than using the `AssetMaterialization` API, which only informs Dagster at runtime about the assets a job interacted with.

Preemptively declaring assets offers distinct advantages, including:

### Lineage

As software-defined assets know what other assets they depend on, an asset's lineage can be [viewed easily in Dagit](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#viewing-assets-in-dagit).

Assets help track and define cross-job dependencies. For example, when viewing a job that materializes assets, you can navigate to the jobs that produce the assets that it depends on. Additionally, when an upstream asset has been updated more recently than a downstream asset, Dagster will indicate that the downstream asset might be out of date.

### Direct operation

Using software-defined assets enables you to directly operate them in Dagit. On the [Assets page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#assets), you can:

- View the materialization history of an asset
- Check when the next materialization will occur
- Launch a run to materialize the asset

Drilling down to the [Asset Details page](/concepts/dagit/dagit#asset-details) for an individual asset shows the sensors or schedules for any jobs targeting the asset. It also includes a **(Re)Materialize** button, allowing you to launch a run that rematerializes the asset, including its ancestors or descendants.

### Improved code ergonomics

Without software-defined assets, you're often forced to choose between:

- **Easy dependency tracking** by containing everything in a single mega-job, which requires maintaining a huge, unwieldy object.

- **Manageable maintenance** by splitting up your pipeline into smaller jobs, which makes tracking cross-job dependencies difficult.

This isn't the case with software-defined assets:

- **Assets track their dependencies,** so you don't need to define mega-jobs just to keep track. This allows you to avoid interruptions in dependency graphs and eliminate the need for root input managers.

- **Using software-defined assets usually means writing less code**. Specifying the inputs to a software-defined asset defines the assets it depends on. This means you don't need to use `@graph` and `@job` to wire dependencies between ops.

  This approach reduces the number of times an asset's name appears in your codebase by half, making improving your codebase's scalability. Refer to the [IO manager-based example](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables-without-an-io-manager) below to see this in action.

---

## When is it appropriate to use software-defined assets?

You should use software-defined assets when:

- You’re using Dagster to produce or maintain assets, AND
- You know what those assets will be before you launch any runs. Note that using software-defined assets in one job doesn’t mean they must be used in all your jobs.

If your use case doesn't meet these criteria, you can still use graphs and ops.

Still not sure? Check out these examples to see what's a good fit and what isn't:

| Use case                                                                                                 | Good fit? | Explanation                                                      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Every day, drop and recreate the `users` table and the `user_recommender_model` model that depends on it | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Every hour, add a partition to the `events` table                                                        | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Clicking a button refreshes the `recommender` model                                                      | Yes       | Assets are known before a run and are being updated              |
| Every day, send emails to a set of users                                                                 | No        | No assets are being updated                                      |
| Every day, read a file of user IDs and change the value of a particular attribute for each user          | No        | The set of assets to update is not known before running the job. |
| Every day, scan my warehouse for tables that haven't been used in months and delete them                 | No        | The set of assets to update is not known before running the job. |

---

## How do software-defined assets work with other Dagster concepts?

Not sure how software-defined assets fit into your current Dagster usage? In this section, we'll touch on how software-defined assets work with some of Dagster's core concepts:

- [Ops and graphs](#ops-and-graphs)
- [Jobs](#jobs)
- [Dagster types](#dagster-types)
- [Repositories](#repositories)
- [IO managers](#io-managers)

### Ops and graphs

| Without software-defined assets                                           | With software-defined assets                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| An [op]() is the basic unit of computation                                | Every software-defined asset includes a graph or an op                                         |
| A [graph]() is a composite unit of computation that connects multiple ops | Every software-defined asset includes a graph or an op                                         |
| Ops can have multiple outputs                                             | Multiple assets can be produced by a single op when defined using the `@multi_asset` decorator |
| Ops can use [config](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops#op-configuration)      | Assets can use [config]()                                                                      |
| Ops can be tested by directly invoking them                               | Assets can be tested by directly invoking them                                                 |
| Ops can require resources                                                 | Software-defined assets can require resources                                                  |

### Jobs

| Without software-defined assets         | With software-defined assets                                |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| A job targets a graph of ops            | An asset job targets a selection of software-defined assets |
| Jobs can be partitioned                 | Assets can be partitioned                                   |
| Jobs can be put on schedules or sensors | Asset jobs can be put on schedules or sensors               |

### Dagster types

| Without software-defined assets                                                                                                           | With software-defined assets                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Op outputs and inputs can have Dagster types                                                                                              | Software-defined assets can have Dagster types                                                                                                                               |
| The `Nothing` Dagster type enables declaring that Dagster doesn't need to store or load the object corresponding to an op output or input | The `non_argument_deps` argument when defining an asset enables specifying dependencies without relying on Dagster to store or load objects corresponding to that dependency |

### Repositories

| Without software-defined assets                       | With software-defined assets    |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Repositories can contain jobs, schedules, and sensors | Repositories can contain assets |

### IO managers

| Without software-defined assets                                         | With software-defined assets                             |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| IO managers can control how op inputs and outputs are loaded and stored | IO managers can control how assets are loaded and stored |

---

## Upgrading jobs to use software-defined assets

Let's say you've written jobs that you want to enrich using software-defined assets. Assuming assets are known and being updated, what would upgrading look like?

Generally, every op output in a job that corresponds to a long-lived object in storage should have a software-defined asset. The following examples demonstrate some realistic Dagster jobs, both with and without software-defined assets:

- [A job that materializes two interdependent tables](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables)
- [A job that materializes two interdependent tables without an IO manager](#materialize-two-interdependent-tables-without-an-io-manager)
- [A job where only some ops produce assets](#not-all-ops-produce-assets)

<Note>
  This isn't an exhaustive list! We're adding the ability to define jobs that
  materialize software-defined assets and then run arbitrary ops. Interested?
  We'd love to hear from you in{" "}
  <a href="https://dagster-slackin.herokuapp.com/" target="new">
    Slack
  </a>{" "}
  or a{" "}
  <a href="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/discussions" target="new">
    GitHub discussion
  </a>
  .
</Note>

### Materialize two interdependent tables

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example is a vanilla, op-based job that follows the idiomatic practice of delegating all IO to IO managers and root input managers.

The goal of each op in the job is to produce an asset. However, because the job doesn't use the software-defined asset APIs, Dagster is unaware of this:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_io_manager.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import In, Out, job, op, repository

from .mylib import s3_io_manager, snowflake_io_manager, train_recommender_model


@op(
    ins={"raw_users": In(root_manager_key="warehouse")},
    out={"users": Out(io_manager_key="warehouse")},
)
def build_users(raw_users: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    users_df = raw_users.dropna()
    return users_df


@op(out={"users_recommender_model": Out(io_manager_key="object_store")})
def build_user_recommender_model(users: DataFrame):
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users)
    return users_recommender_model


@job(resource_defs={"warehouse": snowflake_io_manager, "object_store": s3_io_manager})
def users_recommender_job():
    build_user_recommender_model(build_users())


@repository
def repo():
    return [users_recommender_job]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's what an equivalent job looks like using software-defined assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_io_manager.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import AssetSelection, SourceAsset, asset, repository, with_resources

from .mylib import s3_io_manager, snowflake_io_manager, train_recommender_model

raw_users = SourceAsset(key="raw_users", io_manager_key="warehouse")


@asset(io_manager_key="warehouse")
def users(raw_users: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    users_df = raw_users.dropna()
    return users_df


@asset(io_manager_key="object_store")
def user_recommender_model(users: DataFrame):
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users)
    return users_recommender_model


@repository
def repo():
    return [
        with_resources(
            [users, user_recommender_model],
            resource_defs={
                "warehouse": snowflake_io_manager,
                "object_store": s3_io_manager,
            },
        ),
        AssetSelection.all().to_job("users_recommender_job"),
    ]
```

### Materialize two interdependent tables without an IO manager

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets-1)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets-1)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example does the same things as the [previous example](#a-job-that-materializes-two-interdependent-tables), with one difference. This job performs IO inside of the ops instead of delegating it to IO managers and root input managers:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_nothing.py
from pandas import read_sql

from dagster import In, Nothing, job, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, pickle_to_s3, train_recommender_model


@op
def build_users():
    raw_users_df = read_sql(f"select * from raw_users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_df = raw_users_df.dropna()
    users_df.to_sql(name="users", con=create_db_connection())


@op(ins={"users": In(Nothing)})
def build_user_recommender_model():
    users_df = read_sql(f"select * from users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users_df)
    pickle_to_s3(users_recommender_model, key="users_recommender_model")


@job
def users_recommender_job():
    build_user_recommender_model(build_users())


@repository
def repo():
    return [users_recommender_job]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's an example of an equivalent job that uses software-defined assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_nothing.py
from mylib import create_db_connection, pickle_to_s3, train_recommender_model
from pandas import read_sql

from dagster import AssetSelection, asset, assets_from_current_module, repository


@asset(non_argument_deps={"raw_users"})
def users():
    raw_users_df = read_sql(f"select * from raw_users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_df = raw_users_df.dropna()
    users_df.to_sql(name="users", con=create_db_connection())


@asset(non_argument_deps={"users"})
def user_recommender_model():
    users_df = read_sql(f"select * from users", con=create_db_connection())
    users_recommender_model = train_recommender_model(users_df)
    pickle_to_s3(users_recommender_model, key="users_recommender_model")


@repository
def repo():
    assets = assets_from_current_module()
    return [assets, AssetSelection.all().to_job("users_recommender_job")]
```

### Not all ops produce assets

- [Without software-defined-assets](#without-software-defined-assets-2)
- [With software-defined assets](#with-software-defined-assets-2)

#### Without software-defined assets

This example demonstrates a job where some of the ops (`extract_products` and `get_categories`) don't produce assets of their own. Instead, they produce transient data that downstream ops will use to produce assets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/vanilla_graph.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import job, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, fetch_products


@op
def extract_products() -> DataFrame:
    return fetch_products()


@op
def get_categories(products: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    return DataFrame({"category": products["category"].unique()})


@op
def write_products_table(products: DataFrame) -> None:
    products.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@op
def write_categories_table(categories: DataFrame) -> None:
    categories.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@job
def ingest_products_and_categories():
    products = extract_products()
    product_categories = get_categories(products)
    return write_products_table(products), write_categories_table(product_categories)


@repository
def repo():
    return [ingest_products_and_categories]
```

#### With software-defined assets

Here's an equivalent job using software-defined assets. Note: Because some ops don't correspond to assets, this job uses `@op` and `@graph` APIs and `from_graph` to wrap a graph in a software-defined asset:

```python file=/guides/dagster/enriching_with_software_defined_assets/sda_graph.py
from pandas import DataFrame

from dagster import AssetSelection, AssetsDefinition, GraphOut, graph, op, repository

from .mylib import create_db_connection, fetch_products


@op
def extract_products() -> DataFrame:
    return fetch_products()


@op
def get_categories(products: DataFrame) -> DataFrame:
    return DataFrame({"category": products["category"].unique()})


@op
def write_products_table(products: DataFrame) -> None:
    products.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@op
def write_categories_table(categories: DataFrame) -> None:
    categories.to_sql(name="categories", con=create_db_connection())


@graph(out={"products": GraphOut(), "categories": GraphOut()})
def ingest_graph():
    products = extract_products()
    product_categories = get_categories(products)
    return write_products_table(products), write_categories_table(product_categories)


two_tables = AssetsDefinition.from_graph(ingest_graph)


@repository
def repo():
    return [two_tables, AssetSelection.all().to_job("products_and_categories")]
```
