docs/content/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments-with-github.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Branch Deployments with GitHub Actions | Dagster Cloud
description: Develop and test in the cloud.
---

# Using Branch Deployments with GitHub Actions

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

In this guide, we'll walk you through setting up [Branch Deployments](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments) with GitHub Actions.

Using this approach to Branch Deployments may be a good fit if:

- You use GitHub for version control
- You want Dagster to fully automate Branch Deployments

**If you don't use GitHub for version control or want full control over your setup**, check out the [Branch deployments with the `dagster-cloud CLI` guide](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments).

---

## Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- **Editor** or **Admin** permissions in Dagster Cloud
- **The ability to run a new agent in your infrastructure**. This isn't required if you're using [Serverless deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless).
- **The ability to configure GitHub Actions for your repository**. This isn't required if you used the Dagster Cloud GitHub app to connect your repository as a [code location](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/code-locations).

---

## Step 1: Generate a Dagster Cloud agent token

<GenerateAgentToken />

---

## Step 2: Create and configure an agent

<BDCreateConfigureAgent />

---

## Step 3: Add GitHub workflow files to your repository

<Note>
  If you used the GitHub app to add the repository as a code location, this step
  isn't required.{" "}
  <a href="#step-4-configure-the-github-repository">Skip to the next step</a>.
</Note>

In this step, you'll add the required GitHub workflow files to your GitHub repository. The files can be found in our [Branch Deployments quickstart repository](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart).

Copy the following files to your repository:

- [`dagster_cloud.yaml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/dagster_cloud.yaml)
- [`.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml)
- [`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy.yml)

In the next step, you'll modify these files to work with your Dagster Cloud setup.

---

## Step 4: Configure the GitHub repository

In this section, you'll:

1. [Add the agent registry to `dagster_cloud.yaml`](#step-41-add-the-agent-registry-to-dagster_cloudyaml)
2. [Configure GitHub Action secrets](#step-42-configure-github-action-secrets)
3. [Update GitHub Workflow files](#step-43-update-github-workflow-files)
4. [Verify Action runs](#step-44-verify-action-runs)

### Step 4.1: Add the agent registry to dagster_cloud.yaml

<Note>
  If you're using Serverless deployment, this step isn't required.{" "}
  <a href="#step-42-configure-github-action-secrets">Skip to the next step</a>.
</Note>

In the `dagster_cloud.yaml` file, replace `build.registry` with the registry used by the [agent you created in Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent).

For example:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: example_location
    code_source:
      python_file: repo.py
    build:
      directory: ./example_location
      registry: 764506304434.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/branch-deployment-agent
```

### Step 4.2: Configure GitHub Action secrets

1. In the repository, click the **Settings** tab.
2. In the **Security** section of the sidebar, click **Secrets > Actions**.
3. Click **New repository secret**.
4. In the **Name** field, enter the name of the secret. For example, `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN`
5. In the **Value** field, paste the value of the secret.
6. Click **Add secret**.

Repeat steps 3-6 for each of the secrets required for your registry type:

<details>
  <summary><strong>AMAZON ECR</strong></summary>

- `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN` - The Dagster Cloud agent token you created in [Step 1](#step-1-generate-a-dagster-cloud-agent-token)
- `ORGANIZATION_ID` - Your Dagster Cloud organization ID
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` - The **Access key ID** of the AWS IAM user you created in [Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent)
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` - The **Secret access key** of the AWS IAM user you created in [Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent)

The **Actions secrets** page should look like the following:

<Image
alt="Configured GitHub Actions secrets for an AWS ECR registry"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-aws-ecr.png"
width={1091}
height={623}
/>

</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>DOCKERHUB</strong></summary>

- `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN` - The Dagster Cloud agent token you created in [Step 1](#step-1-generate-a-dagster-cloud-agent-token)
- `ORGANIZATION_ID` - Your Dagster Cloud organization ID
- `DOCKERHUB_USERNAME` - Your DockerHub username
- `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN` - <!-- https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/access-tokens/#create-an-access-token -->

The **Actions secrets** page should look like the following:

<Image
alt="Required GitHub Actions secrets for a DockerHub registry"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-dockerhub.png"
width={790}
height={318}
/>

</details>

### Step 4.3: Update GitHub Workflow files

In this step, you'll update the GitHub Workflow files in the repository to set up Docker registry access.

In the `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` and `.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml` files, uncomment the `step` associated with your registry.

For example, for an Amazon ECR registry, we'd uncomment the following portion of the workflow files:

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Configure AWS credentials
    uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v1
    with:
      aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      aws-region: YOUR_REGISTRY_REGION
```

Save and commit the files to the repository.

### Step 4.4: Verify Action runs

The last step is to verify that the Action runs successfully.

1. In the repository, click the **Actions** tab.
2. In the list of workflows, locate the latest branch deployment run. For example:

   <Image
   alt="A successful run for a Branch Deployment Action"
   src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-verify-run.png"
   width={1263}
   height={651}
   />

If the run finished successfully, that's it!

---

## Step 5: Access the branch deployment

Now that Branch Deployments are configured, you can check out the preview in Dagster Cloud. There are two ways to do this:

- [From a pull request](#from-a-pull-request)
- [Directly in Dagster Cloud](#directly-in-dagster-cloud)

### From a pull request

Every pull request in the repository contains a **View in Cloud** link:

<Image
alt="View in Cloud preview link highlighted in a GitHub pull request"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-cloud-preview-link.png"
width={922}
height={521}
/>

Clicking the link will open a branch deployment - or a preview of the changes - in Dagster Cloud.

### Directly in Dagster Cloud

You can also access branch deployments directly in Dagster Cloud from the **deployment switcher**:

<Image
alt="Highlighted branch deployment in the Dagster Cloud deployment switcher"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/dagit-deployment-switcher.png"
width={563}
height={311}
/>

Commit message:

Clarify naming of cloud_workspace.yaml

docs/content/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments-with-github.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Branch Deployments with GitHub Actions | Dagster Cloud
description: Develop and test in the cloud.
---

# Using Branch Deployments with GitHub Actions

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

In this guide, we'll walk you through setting up [Branch Deployments](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments) with GitHub Actions.

Using this approach to Branch Deployments may be a good fit if:

- You use GitHub for version control
- You want Dagster to fully automate Branch Deployments

**If you don't use GitHub for version control or want full control over your setup**, check out the [Branch deployments with the `dagster-cloud CLI` guide](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/using-branch-deployments).

---

## Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this guide, you'll need:

- **Editor** or **Admin** permissions in Dagster Cloud
- **The ability to run a new agent in your infrastructure**. This isn't required if you're using [Serverless deployment](/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless).
- **The ability to configure GitHub Actions for your repository**. This isn't required if you used the Dagster Cloud GitHub app to connect your repository as a [code location](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/code-locations).

---

## Step 1: Generate a Dagster Cloud agent token

<GenerateAgentToken />

---

## Step 2: Create and configure an agent

<BDCreateConfigureAgent />

---

## Step 3: Add GitHub workflow files to your repository

<Note>
  If you used the GitHub app to add the repository as a code location, this step
  isn't required.{" "}
  <a href="#step-4-configure-the-github-repository">Skip to the next step</a>.
</Note>

In this step, you'll add the required GitHub workflow files to your GitHub repository. The files can be found in our [Branch Deployments quickstart repository](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart).

Copy the following files to your repository:

- [`cloud_workspace.yaml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/cloud_workspace.yaml) - **Note**: Save this file as `dagster_cloud.yaml`. This file has been re-named, but not yet reflected in this template repository.
- [`.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml)
- [`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-cloud-branch-deployments-quickstart/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy.yml)

In the next step, you'll modify these files to work with your Dagster Cloud setup.

---

## Step 4: Configure the GitHub repository

In this section, you'll:

1. [Add the agent registry to `dagster_cloud.yaml`](#step-41-add-the-agent-registry-to-dagster_cloudyaml)
2. [Configure GitHub Action secrets](#step-42-configure-github-action-secrets)
3. [Update GitHub Workflow files](#step-43-update-github-workflow-files)
4. [Verify Action runs](#step-44-verify-action-runs)

### Step 4.1: Add the agent registry to dagster_cloud.yaml

<Note>
  If you're using Serverless deployment, this step isn't required.{" "}
  <a href="#step-42-configure-github-action-secrets">Skip to the next step</a>.
</Note>

In the `dagster_cloud.yaml` file, replace `build.registry` with the registry used by the [agent you created in Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent).

For example:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: example_location
    code_source:
      python_file: repo.py
    build:
      directory: ./example_location
      registry: 764506304434.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/branch-deployment-agent
```

### Step 4.2: Configure GitHub Action secrets

1. In the repository, click the **Settings** tab.
2. In the **Security** section of the sidebar, click **Secrets > Actions**.
3. Click **New repository secret**.
4. In the **Name** field, enter the name of the secret. For example, `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN`
5. In the **Value** field, paste the value of the secret.
6. Click **Add secret**.

Repeat steps 3-6 for each of the secrets required for your registry type:

<details>
  <summary><strong>AMAZON ECR</strong></summary>

- `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN` - The Dagster Cloud agent token you created in [Step 1](#step-1-generate-a-dagster-cloud-agent-token)
- `ORGANIZATION_ID` - Your Dagster Cloud organization ID
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` - The **Access key ID** of the AWS IAM user you created in [Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent)
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` - The **Secret access key** of the AWS IAM user you created in [Step 2](#step-2-create-and-configure-an-agent)

The **Actions secrets** page should look like the following:

<Image
alt="Configured GitHub Actions secrets for an AWS ECR registry"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-aws-ecr.png"
width={1091}
height={623}
/>

</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>DOCKERHUB</strong></summary>

- `DAGSTER_CLOUD_API_TOKEN` - The Dagster Cloud agent token you created in [Step 1](#step-1-generate-a-dagster-cloud-agent-token)
- `ORGANIZATION_ID` - Your Dagster Cloud organization ID
- `DOCKERHUB_USERNAME` - Your DockerHub username
- `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN` - <!-- https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/access-tokens/#create-an-access-token -->

The **Actions secrets** page should look like the following:

<Image
alt="Required GitHub Actions secrets for a DockerHub registry"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-dockerhub.png"
width={790}
height={318}
/>

</details>

### Step 4.3: Update GitHub Workflow files

In this step, you'll update the GitHub Workflow files in the repository to set up Docker registry access.

In the `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` and `.github/workflows/branch_deployments.yml` files, uncomment the `step` associated with your registry.

For example, for an Amazon ECR registry, we'd uncomment the following portion of the workflow files:

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Configure AWS credentials
    uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v1
    with:
      aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      aws-region: YOUR_REGISTRY_REGION
```

Save and commit the files to the repository.

### Step 4.4: Verify Action runs

The last step is to verify that the Action runs successfully.

1. In the repository, click the **Actions** tab.
2. In the list of workflows, locate the latest branch deployment run. For example:

   <Image
   alt="A successful run for a Branch Deployment Action"
   src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-verify-run.png"
   width={1263}
   height={651}
   />

If the run finished successfully, that's it!

---

## Step 5: Access the branch deployment

Now that Branch Deployments are configured, you can check out the preview in Dagster Cloud. There are two ways to do this:

- [From a pull request](#from-a-pull-request)
- [Directly in Dagster Cloud](#directly-in-dagster-cloud)

### From a pull request

Every pull request in the repository contains a **View in Cloud** link:

<Image
alt="View in Cloud preview link highlighted in a GitHub pull request"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/github-cloud-preview-link.png"
width={922}
height={521}
/>

Clicking the link will open a branch deployment - or a preview of the changes - in Dagster Cloud.

### Directly in Dagster Cloud

You can also access branch deployments directly in Dagster Cloud from the **deployment switcher**:

<Image
alt="Highlighted branch deployment in the Dagster Cloud deployment switcher"
src="/images/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/branch-deployments/dagit-deployment-switcher.png"
width={563}
height={311}
/>
