docs/content/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories.mdx, before:

---
title: Repositories | Dagster
description: A repository is a collection of jobs, schedules, and sensor definitions that the Dagster CLI, Dagit and the Dagster Daemon can target to load them.
---

# Repositories

A repository is a collection of jobs, schedules, and sensor definitions that the Dagster CLI, Dagit and the Dagster Daemon can target to load them.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> | The decorator used to define repositories. The decorator returns a <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition" />                                                                                                                |
| <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition" /> | Base class for repositories. You almost never want to use initialize this class directly. Instead, you should use the <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> which returns a <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition"  /> |

## Overview

A repository is a convenient way to organize your job and other definitions. Each repository:

- Includes various definitions: [Jobs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs), [Schedules](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules), [Sensors](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/sensors).
- Is loaded in a different process than Dagster system processes like Dagit. Any communication between the Dagster system and repository code occurs over an RPC mechanism, ensuring that problems in repository code can't affect Dagster or other repositories.
- Can be loaded in its own Python environment, so you can manage your dependencies (or even your own Python versions) separately.

You can set up multiple repositories and load them all at once by creating a `workspace.yaml` file. This can be useful for grouping jobs and other artifacts by team for organizational purposes. See [Workspace](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/workspaces) to learn more about setting up multiple repositories.

---

## Defining a Repository

Repositories are typically declared using the <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> decorator. For example:

```python file=/concepts/repositories_workspaces/repository_definition.py
from dagster import RunRequest, ScheduleDefinition, job, op, repository, sensor


@op
def hello():
    pass


@job
def job1():
    hello()


@job
def job2():
    hello()


@job
def job3():
    hello()


job1_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=job1, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")


@sensor(job=job2)
def job2_sensor():
    should_run = True
    if should_run:
        yield RunRequest(run_key=None, run_config={})


@repository
def my_repository():
    return [
        job1_schedule,
        job2_sensor,
        job3,
    ]
```

The repository specifies a list of items, each of which can be a <PyObject object="JobDefinition"/>, <PyObject module="dagster" object="ScheduleDefinition" />, or <PyObject module="dagster" object="SensorDefinition" />. If you include a schedule or sensor, the job it targets will be automatically also included on the repository.

## Using a Repository

If you save the code above as `repo.py`, you can then run the Dagster command line tools on it. Try running:

```bash
dagit -f repo.py
```

Now you can see that all jobs in this repository are on the left:

<Image
alt="repo-dagit"
src="/images/concepts/repo-dagit.png"
width={4032}
height={2454}
/>

You can also use `-m` to specify a module where the repository lives (See [`dagit`](/\_apidocs/cli#dagit) for the full list of ways to locate a repository).

Loading repositories via the `-f` or `-m` options is actually just a convenience function. The underlying abstraction is the Workspace, which determines all of the available repositories available to Dagit. See [Workspace](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/workspaces) for more details.

Commit message:

[docs] - Update repository concept doc with asset info (#8373)

docs/content/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories.mdx, after:

---
title: Repositories | Dagster
description: A repository is a collection of jobs, schedules, and sensor definitions that the Dagster CLI, Dagit and the Dagster Daemon can target to load them.
---

# Repositories

A repository is a collection of software-defined assets, jobs, schedules, and sensors. Repositories are loaded as a unit by the Dagster CLI, Dagit and the Dagster Daemon.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> | The decorator used to define repositories. The decorator returns a <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition" />                                                                                                                |
| <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition" /> | Base class for repositories. You almost never want to use initialize this class directly. Instead, you should use the <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> which returns a <PyObject object="RepositoryDefinition"  /> |

## Overview

A repository is a convenient way to organize your job and other definitions. Each repository:

- Includes various definitions: [Software-defined assets](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets), [Jobs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs-graphs), [Schedules](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/schedules), and [Sensors](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/sensors).
- Is loaded in a different process than Dagster system processes like Dagit. Any communication between the Dagster system and repository code occurs over an RPC mechanism, ensuring that problems in repository code can't affect Dagster or other repositories.
- Can be loaded in its own Python environment, so you can manage your dependencies (or even your own Python versions) separately.

You can set up multiple repositories and load them all at once by creating a `workspace.yaml` file. This can be useful for grouping jobs and other artifacts by team for organizational purposes. See [Workspace](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/workspaces) to learn more about setting up multiple repositories.

---

## Defining a Repository

Repositories are typically declared using the <PyObject object="repository" decorator /> decorator. For example:

```python file=/concepts/repositories_workspaces/repository_definition.py
from dagster import RunRequest, ScheduleDefinition, asset, job, op, repository, sensor


@asset
def asset1():
    pass


@asset
def asset2():
    pass


@asset(group_name="mygroup")
def asset3():
    pass


@op
def hello():
    pass


@job
def job1():
    hello()


@job
def job2():
    hello()


@job
def job3():
    hello()


job1_schedule = ScheduleDefinition(job=job1, cron_schedule="0 0 * * *")


@sensor(job=job2)
def job2_sensor():
    should_run = True
    if should_run:
        yield RunRequest(run_key=None, run_config={})


@repository
def my_repository():
    return [
        asset1,
        asset2,
        asset3,
        job1_schedule,
        job2_sensor,
        job3,
    ]
```

The repository specifies a list of items, each of which can be a <PyObject object="AssetsDefinition"/>, <PyObject object="JobDefinition"/>, <PyObject module="dagster" object="ScheduleDefinition" />, or <PyObject module="dagster" object="SensorDefinition" />. If you include a schedule or sensor, the job it targets will be automatically also included on the repository.

## Using a Repository

If you save the code above as `repo.py`, you can then run the Dagster command line tools on it. Try running:

```bash
dagit -f repo.py
```

Now you can see that all the assets and jobs in this repository are listed in the left sidebar. Assets are organized in groups. In our example, `asset1` and `asset2` are placed in the `default` group because they were not explicitly assigned a group. `asset3` is in `mygroup`.

<Image
alt="repo-dagit"
src="/images/concepts/repo-dagit.png"
width={4032}
height={2454}
/>

You can also use `-m` to specify a module where the repository lives (See [`dagit`](/\_apidocs/cli#dagit) for the full list of ways to locate a repository).

Loading repositories via the `-f` or `-m` options is actually just a convenience function. The underlying abstraction is the Workspace, which determines all of the available repositories available to Dagit. See [Workspace](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/workspaces) for more details.
