---
title: "Components"
sidebar_position: 10
---

:::info

This feature is still in development and might change in patch releases. It’s not production ready, and the documentation may also evolve. Stay tuned for updates.

:::

{/* The snippets in this guide are generated by running `make regenerate_cli_snippets` in the root `docs` folder, generated from
    `/examples/docs_beta_snippets/docs_beta_snippets_tests/snippet_checks/guides/components/test_components_docs.py` */}
Welcome to Dagster Components.

Dagster Components is a new way to structure your Dagster projects. It aims to provide:

- An opinionated project layout that supports ongoing scaffolding from "Hello world" to the most advanced projects.
- A class-based interface (`Component`) for dynamically constructing Dagster definitions from arbitrary data (such as third-party integration configuration files).
- A toolkit for building YAML DSLs for `Components`, allowing instances of components to be defined with little to no Python code.
- A Dagster-provided set of component types that provide a simplified user experience for common integrations.

## Installation

To use the Components framework, you must install the `dg` command line tool, which lives in the published Python package `dagster-dg`. `dg` is designed to be globally installed and has no dependency on `dagster` itself. `dg` allows you to quickly scaffold Dagster projects and populate them with components.

### 1. Install uv

We will use the Python package manager [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) to install a globally available `dg`:

<CliInvocationExample contents="brew install uv" />

### 2. Install the dg command line tool

Once you have installed `uv`, use it to install `dg`.

<CliInvocationExample contents="uv tool install dagster-dg" />

:::tip

`uv tool install` installs python packages from PyPI into isolated environments and exposes their executables on your shell path. This means the `dg` command should now be available. It will always execute in an isolated environment separate from any project environment.

:::

:::note

If you have a local clone of the `dagster` repo, you can install a local version of `dg` with `uv tool install -e $DAGSTER_GIT_REPO_DIR/python_modules/libraries/dagster-dg`. This will create an isolated environment for `dg` just like the standard `uv tool install`, but the environment will contain an editable installation of `dagster-dg`.

:::

## dg API reference

Below is the help message for `dg`, which also serves as the API reference:

<CliInvocationExample path="docs_beta_snippets/docs_beta_snippets/guides/components/index/1-help.txt"  />

## Next steps

* [Follow the components ETL pipeline tutorial](components-etl-pipeline-tutorial)
* [Build your own pipeline with components](building-pipelines-with-components)
