docs/content/deployment/guides/aws.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploying Dagster to AWS | Dagster
description: To deploy Dagster to AWS, EC2 or ECS can host Dagit, RDS can store runs and events, and S3 can act as an IO manager.
---

# Deploying Dagster to AWS

This guide provides instructions for deploying Dagster on AWS. You can use EC2 or ECS to host Dagit and the Dagster Daemon, RDS to store runs and events, and S3 as an IO manager to store op inputs and outputs.

## Hosting Dagster on EC2

To host Dagster on a bare VM or in Docker on EC2, see [Running Dagster as a service](/deployment/guides/service).

## Using RDS for run and event log storage

You can use a hosted RDS PostgreSQL database for your Dagster run/events data by configuring your `dagster.yaml` file.

```python file=/deploying/dagster-pg.yaml
storage:
  postgres:
    postgres_db:
      username: my_username
      password: my_password
      hostname: my_hostname
      db_name: my_database
      port: 5432
```

In this case, you'll want to ensure you provide the right connection strings for your RDS instance, and ensure that the node or container hosting Dagit is able to connect to RDS.

Be sure that this file is present, and _DAGSTER_HOME_ is set, on the node where Dagit is running.

Note that using RDS for run and event log storage does not require that Dagit be running in the cloud. If you are connecting a local Dagit instance to a remote RDS storage, double check that your local node is able to connect to RDS.

## Deploying in ECS

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/deploy_ecs" />

The Deploying on ECS example on GitHub demonstrates how to configure the [Docker Compose CLI integration with ECS](https://docs.docker.com/cloud/ecs-integration/) to manage all of the required AWS resources that Dagster needs to run on ECS. The example includes a Dagit container for loading and launching jobs, a `dagster-daemon` container for managing a run queue and submitting runs from schedules and sensors, a Postgres container for persistent storage, and a container with user job code. The Dagster instance uses the <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> to launch each run in its own ECS task.

### Launching Runs in ECS

The <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> launches an ECS task per run. It assumes that the rest of your Dagster deployment is also running in ECS.

By default, each run's task registers its own task definition. To simplify configuration, these task definitions inherit most of their configuration (networking, cpu, memory, environment, etc.) from the process that launches the run but overrides its container definition with a new command to launch a Dagster run. When using the <PyObject module="dagster._core.run_coordinator" object="DefaultRunCoordinator" />, runs launched via Dagit or GraphQL inherit their task definitions from the Dagit task; runs launched from a sensor or schedule inherit their task definitions from the Daemon task.

Alternatively, you can define your own task definition in your dagster.yaml:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    task_definition: "arn:aws:ecs:us-east-1:1234567890:task-definition/my-task-definition:1"
    container_name: "my_container_name"
```

### Customizing CPU and Memory in ECS

You can use job tags to customize the CPU and memory of every run for a job:

```py
from dagster import job, op

@op()
def my_op(context):
  context.log.info('running')

@job(
  tags = {
    "ecs/cpu": "256",
    "ecs/memory": "512",
  }
)
def my_job():
  my_op()
```

[Fargate tasks only support certain combinations of CPU and Memory.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-cpu-memory-error.html)

### Customizing the Launched Run's Task

The <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> creates a new task for each run, using the current ECS task to determine network configuration. For example, the launched run will use the same ECS cluster, subnets, security groups, and launch type (e.g. Fargate or EC2).

To adjust the configuration of the launched run's task, set the `run_launcher.config.run_task_kwargs` field to a dictionary with additional key-value pairs that should be passed into the `run_task` boto3 API call. For example, to launch new runs in EC2 from a task running in Fargate, you could apply this configuration:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    run_task_kwargs:
      launchType: "EC2"
```

Refer to the [boto3 docs](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.run_task) for the full set of available arguments to `run_task`. Additionally, note that:

- Keys are in `camelCase` as they correspond to arguments in boto's API
- All arguments with the exception of `taskDefinition` and `overrides` can be used in `run_launcher.config.run_task_kwargs`. `taskDefinition` can be overridden by configuring the `run_launcher.config.task_definition` field instead.

### Secrets Management in ECS

[ECS can bind AWS Secrets Managers secrets as environment variables when runs launch.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/specifying-sensitive-data-secrets.html)

By default, Dagster will fetch any Secrets Manager secrets tagged with the key `dagster` and set them as environment variables.

Alternatively you can set your own tag name in your dagster.yaml:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    secrets_tag: "my-tag-name"
```

Any secret tagged with `my-tag-name` will be included in the environment.

Additionally, you can pass specific secrets using the [same structure as the ECS API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_Secret.html):

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    secrets:
      - name: "MY_API_TOKEN"
        valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:token::"
      - name: "MY_PASSWORD"
        valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:password::"
```

Any secret tagged with `dagster` will be included in the environment. `MY_API_TOKEN` and `MY_PASSWORD` will also be included in the environment.

## Using S3 for IO Management

To enable parallel computation (e.g., with the multiprocessing or Dagster celery executors), you will need to configure persistent [IO Managers](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) -- for instance, using an S3 bucket to store data passed between ops.

You'll first need to need to use <PyObject module="dagster_aws.s3" object="s3_pickle_io_manager"/> as your IO Manager or customize your own persistent io managers (see [example](/concepts/io-management/io-managers#defining-an-io-manager)).

```python file=/deploying/aws/io_manager.py
from dagster_aws.s3.io_manager import s3_pickle_io_manager
from dagster_aws.s3.resources import s3_resource

from dagster import Int, Out, job, op


@op(out=Out(Int))
def my_op():
    return 1


@job(
    resource_defs={
        "io_manager": s3_pickle_io_manager,
        "s3": s3_resource,
    }
)
def my_job():
    my_op()
```

Then, add the following YAML block in your job's config:

```yaml file=/deploying/aws/io_manager.yaml
resources:
  io_manager:
    config:
      s3_bucket: my-cool-bucket
      s3_prefix: good/prefix-for-files-
```

The resource uses `boto` under the hood, so if you are accessing your private buckets, you will need to provide the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables or follow one of the other boto authentication methods.

With this in place, your job runs will store data passed between ops on S3 in the location `s3://<bucket>/dagster/storage/<job run id>/<op name>.compute`.

Commit message:

Fix incorrect secrets_tags docs (#9980)
Summary:
I incorrectly assumed that secrets_tag secrets were kv pairs. Update the agent docs and add a clarification in the OSS docs.

docs/content/deployment/guides/aws.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploying Dagster to AWS | Dagster
description: To deploy Dagster to AWS, EC2 or ECS can host Dagit, RDS can store runs and events, and S3 can act as an IO manager.
---

# Deploying Dagster to AWS

This guide provides instructions for deploying Dagster on AWS. You can use EC2 or ECS to host Dagit and the Dagster Daemon, RDS to store runs and events, and S3 as an IO manager to store op inputs and outputs.

## Hosting Dagster on EC2

To host Dagster on a bare VM or in Docker on EC2, see [Running Dagster as a service](/deployment/guides/service).

## Using RDS for run and event log storage

You can use a hosted RDS PostgreSQL database for your Dagster run/events data by configuring your `dagster.yaml` file.

```python file=/deploying/dagster-pg.yaml
storage:
  postgres:
    postgres_db:
      username: my_username
      password: my_password
      hostname: my_hostname
      db_name: my_database
      port: 5432
```

In this case, you'll want to ensure you provide the right connection strings for your RDS instance, and ensure that the node or container hosting Dagit is able to connect to RDS.

Be sure that this file is present, and _DAGSTER_HOME_ is set, on the node where Dagit is running.

Note that using RDS for run and event log storage does not require that Dagit be running in the cloud. If you are connecting a local Dagit instance to a remote RDS storage, double check that your local node is able to connect to RDS.

## Deploying in ECS

<CodeReferenceLink filePath="examples/deploy_ecs" />

The Deploying on ECS example on GitHub demonstrates how to configure the [Docker Compose CLI integration with ECS](https://docs.docker.com/cloud/ecs-integration/) to manage all of the required AWS resources that Dagster needs to run on ECS. The example includes a Dagit container for loading and launching jobs, a `dagster-daemon` container for managing a run queue and submitting runs from schedules and sensors, a Postgres container for persistent storage, and a container with user job code. The Dagster instance uses the <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> to launch each run in its own ECS task.

### Launching Runs in ECS

The <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> launches an ECS task per run. It assumes that the rest of your Dagster deployment is also running in ECS.

By default, each run's task registers its own task definition. To simplify configuration, these task definitions inherit most of their configuration (networking, cpu, memory, environment, etc.) from the process that launches the run but overrides its container definition with a new command to launch a Dagster run. When using the <PyObject module="dagster._core.run_coordinator" object="DefaultRunCoordinator" />, runs launched via Dagit or GraphQL inherit their task definitions from the Dagit task; runs launched from a sensor or schedule inherit their task definitions from the Daemon task.

Alternatively, you can define your own task definition in your dagster.yaml:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    task_definition: "arn:aws:ecs:us-east-1:1234567890:task-definition/my-task-definition:1"
    container_name: "my_container_name"
```

### Customizing CPU and Memory in ECS

You can use job tags to customize the CPU and memory of every run for a job:

```py
from dagster import job, op

@op()
def my_op(context):
  context.log.info('running')

@job(
  tags = {
    "ecs/cpu": "256",
    "ecs/memory": "512",
  }
)
def my_job():
  my_op()
```

[Fargate tasks only support certain combinations of CPU and Memory.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-cpu-memory-error.html)

### Customizing the Launched Run's Task

The <PyObject module="dagster_aws.ecs" object="EcsRunLauncher" /> creates a new task for each run, using the current ECS task to determine network configuration. For example, the launched run will use the same ECS cluster, subnets, security groups, and launch type (e.g. Fargate or EC2).

To adjust the configuration of the launched run's task, set the `run_launcher.config.run_task_kwargs` field to a dictionary with additional key-value pairs that should be passed into the `run_task` boto3 API call. For example, to launch new runs in EC2 from a task running in Fargate, you could apply this configuration:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    run_task_kwargs:
      launchType: "EC2"
```

Refer to the [boto3 docs](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/ecs.html#ECS.Client.run_task) for the full set of available arguments to `run_task`. Additionally, note that:

- Keys are in `camelCase` as they correspond to arguments in boto's API
- All arguments with the exception of `taskDefinition` and `overrides` can be used in `run_launcher.config.run_task_kwargs`. `taskDefinition` can be overridden by configuring the `run_launcher.config.task_definition` field instead.

### Secrets Management in ECS

[ECS can bind AWS Secrets Managers secrets as environment variables when runs launch.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/specifying-sensitive-data-secrets.html)

By default, Dagster will fetch any Secrets Manager secrets tagged with the key `dagster` and set them as environment variables.

Alternatively you can set your own tag name in your dagster.yaml:

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    secrets_tag: "my-tag-name"
```

Any secret tagged with `my-tag-name` will be included as an environment variable with the name and value as that secret.

Additionally, you can pass specific secrets using the [same structure as the ECS API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_Secret.html):

```yaml
run_launcher:
  module: "dagster_aws.ecs"
  class: "EcsRunLauncher"
  config:
    secrets:
      - name: "MY_API_TOKEN"
        valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:token::"
      - name: "MY_PASSWORD"
        valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:password::"
```

Any secret tagged with `dagster` will be included in the environment. `MY_API_TOKEN` and `MY_PASSWORD` will also be included in the environment.

## Using S3 for IO Management

To enable parallel computation (e.g., with the multiprocessing or Dagster celery executors), you will need to configure persistent [IO Managers](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) -- for instance, using an S3 bucket to store data passed between ops.

You'll first need to need to use <PyObject module="dagster_aws.s3" object="s3_pickle_io_manager"/> as your IO Manager or customize your own persistent io managers (see [example](/concepts/io-management/io-managers#defining-an-io-manager)).

```python file=/deploying/aws/io_manager.py
from dagster_aws.s3.io_manager import s3_pickle_io_manager
from dagster_aws.s3.resources import s3_resource

from dagster import Int, Out, job, op


@op(out=Out(Int))
def my_op():
    return 1


@job(
    resource_defs={
        "io_manager": s3_pickle_io_manager,
        "s3": s3_resource,
    }
)
def my_job():
    my_op()
```

Then, add the following YAML block in your job's config:

```yaml file=/deploying/aws/io_manager.yaml
resources:
  io_manager:
    config:
      s3_bucket: my-cool-bucket
      s3_prefix: good/prefix-for-files-
```

The resource uses `boto` under the hood, so if you are accessing your private buckets, you will need to provide the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables or follow one of the other boto authentication methods.

With this in place, your job runs will store data passed between ops on S3 in the location `s3://<bucket>/dagster/storage/<job run id>/<op name>.compute`.
